Pleasure.

We have to counter terrorism, yes. But I believe that the main cause of all this is the regime in Syria and this regime should be punished.
No red lines were drawn to limit the action of the Syrian regime. The world remained unfazed even when Syrian children and women were being killed with chemical weapons and when its populated neighborhoods were bombed with air-dropped barrels. Eventually, the Syrian people were stuck between terrorism of the regime and terrorism of extremist forces that thrived in the swamp of violence.
Thank you.
Well, we're in it because we believe that this is a dangerous -- that dangerous movements happening in our own -- our region. And we're going to stay in it as, as you said, for -- unfortunately looks like we're going to stay for a while. Everybody, not only Qatar. So we are, yes, we are in it. We believe that we have to counter terrorism and that was why we are -- we are in it. We've been asked by our American friends if we can join and we did.
Honestly, no. I don't agree. I agree that we have to counter terrorism, yes. But I believe that the main cause of all this is the regime in Syria and this regime should be punished. As you said, it's more than three years now war and the environment that the Syrian people have been living in, it will create this violence. And we've been saying that from day one, that if we don't stop the bloodshed in Syria and we don't stop Bashar committing genocide on his own people, this is where we -- unfortunately, we are in a situation now that the Syrian people, who demanded for their freedom, are between a regime, a brutal regime, and terrorist acts. So I think that it's a whole thing that has to be solved. If we think that we're going to get through the terrorist movements and leave those regimes doing what they -- this regime especially, doing what he is doing -- then terrorist movements will come back again.
Well, what we -- Qatar cannot do that by itself, of course. There is a coalition that will help us protect the Syrian people; we will be part of it. As you know that we were -- we were part of a coalition that helped to free the Libyan people. So we will be part of it because we believe that the main -- what caused all this chaos is the Syrian regime.
No, it won't. It won't. Terrorism is something that was not acceptable in our culture and our religion. So it will not stop us.
Well, we have to see the difference between movements. I know that in America and some countries they look at some movements as terrorist movements. In our part of the region, we don't. But if you're talking about certain movements, especially in Syria and in Iraq, we all consider them terrorist movement. And we don't accept any fund for those and we don't accept anybody funding those groups.
We have a strong law against funding terrorist groups. But as I said, there is differences between some countries, of who are the terrorists and who are the maybe Islamist groups, but we don't consider them as terrorists.
Such as groups in Syria, groups in Libya, groups in Egypt --
No, no, we do recognize extremists. We believe that their actions -- we believe that they're extremists. And we stop -- we don't fund extremists. But there are differences. There are differences that some countries and some people that any group which is -- which comes from an Islamist background are terrorists. And we don't accept that. And all this is because of political difference. We don't -- we don't accept that. But people, especially in Syria and Iraq and other Arab countries, who don't believe in the freedom of speech, we don't believe that they have to live with others and accept others, and also accept the choice of the people, their own people. Those are the people that we don't fund. Other than that, I believe that we'll make a big mistake for any Islamic movement. But we have differences, ideological differences with them. I'm talking about some countries, to consider them extremist, I think this is a big mistake and it's a danger. Other than that, extremists are well-known. Terrorist groups are well- known and we know them. Everybody knows them.
Going back to the first point that you mentioned, that we had differences with our -- with some of our brother neighboring countries, it is true, yes, we had differences. There was a confusion in the beginning of the Arab Spring and for everybody, especially in our region, because it happens in our neighbors, in our neighbor countries. Everybody took a different step, foreign policy. We took our foreign policy, which we believe was right at that moment, that we helped and we stood the Arab people who demanded for their dignity and for freedom. What happened after that election, the Egyptian people elected a government -- or elected the Muslim Brotherhood. We gave aid to the Egyptian government before the Muslim Brotherhood during the military government after the step-down of Hosni Mubarak. People were saying that we support the Muslim Brotherhood. We don't support. we support the Egyptian government. We supported them during Mr. Tantawi. We support them also during the prime minister, Essam Sharaf. We supported them during Mr. Morsi and we support them also during the former president, Adly Mansour, and we still support them. So it's nothing to do with Muslim Brotherhood. We know that Muslim Brotherhood, after what happened in Egypt a year ago, after the coup that happened in Egypt, many of them left and some of them came to Qatar because they were threatened and they were afraid. So, yes, we are -- they were in Qatar and we are safe -- they were safe in Qatar as long as they didn't practice any politicking or any ideas. They're always -- they're always welcome in Qatar.
Some of them are still there. Some of them are leaving because they believe that this is the moment for them to practice politics and they know the rules of the country, that as long as you're here, you can't practice politic against any other army, other Arab country.
As long as they're there in Qatar.
We support all Palestinian people. We believe Hamas is a very important part of the Palestinian people. As I said, we have differences with friends that -- for example, the United States consider them as terrorist groups. We don't for simply because they're a very important component of the Palestinian people. Going back for history nearly 10 years ago, we were asked by the Americans if we could talk to Hamas to make them participate in the election which happened in Palestine. And we spoke to them very honestly -- it was my father who spoke to them -- that, you know, we were asked from our American friends that you participate in the next election. And so their answer was we will, but do you think -- will the international community accept us? So my father said yes, because I had a -- I was asked by the Americans for you to join. So it happened. So the thing is what is the difference between Hamas 10 years ago and Hamas now? I believe the difference is that Hamas are more realistic now. They believe in peace and they want peace. But that's the -- for the other party to believe in peace as well and to be more realistic.
Well, we believe in peace. And we -- since 1991 and '93 at the Oslo and after Oslo, we believed in peace and we helped a lot in trying to make a bridge between the Palestinians and the Israelis. I think the war in Gaza a few years ago -- of course after we cut our relation, our official relation with Israel, the amount of dead people and innocent people, this is -- and that is why, as I said, we've stopped. We cut our relation with Israel. But at the same time we believe that the only way to get out of it is to have easy peace between the Israelis and the -- and the Palestinians, because we believe in peace. And this is the only way that we should all work together, to put pressure on both sides to reach the peace solution.
We can't start the relation. It's not -- it's not where we are work -- I think -- I don't think we have a problem in starting the relation with the -- with the Israelis as long as they are serious in making peace and providing and protecting the Palestinian people.
OK.
OK.

Thank you, Erin, for hosting me. We are still looking into the investigation with the report, the conclusion of the report is not yet out, so we can't comment now on ongoing investigation.
It is not true, yes.
Well, this act of aggression against Qatar really has no basis to it. So, we don't know exactly what they -- their motives from this act, all these stories about Qatar financing terrorism are fabricated. They are not true. And we continue to ask for clarification on these matters, yet we didn't receive anything yet.
It is not a gray area for Qatar. We are -- we enacted laws to counter terror financing. We -- this issue is not subject only to Qatar. Terror financing is across the whole globe. We as a government of Qatar are doing our utmost in combating terrorism along with our allies. There are laws that prevent terror financing in our country.
Well, if there are any proof that there are terror financing going on in Qatar and we have been approached with evidence, we will act on them.
Well, our courts are taking action against all suspected terrorists who are on this list. There are some prosecutions that happened and we are determined to fight finance of terrorism.
Well, our cooperation with the United States speaks for itself. It is long-standing. We've been committed to it. We also remain committed to our efforts in the region and globally and fighting terrorism.
I saw the tweets and I went through them carefully. I -- as I told you, we are confident with our cooperation with the United States. We are confident of our efforts to combat terrorism. So, they came to me as a surprise.
As I told you, Erin, we are committed to this cooperation, our cooperation with the U.S. speaks for itself. So, we have reports from the Treasury, we have reports from the State Department that focuses on our efforts.
Thank you, Erin. Thank you very much.

Thank you very much.
Mainly, if you are looking at the demands, there are accusations that Qatar is supporting terrorism. They are shutting free speech, shutting the media out, expelling people, oppositions, violating the international law by withdrawing citizenship from some of the people and back home. So there are a lot of demands which are against the international law.
We are not going to comply with anything against the international law. We are not going to have something which just signals out other. And if any situation will be provided, it should be provided for the entire.
Shutting Al Jazeera. This is something out of the question.
You can ask me the demands one by one. But let me tell you that any issue of touching the sovereignty of the country, we are not going to discuss.
It is an aggression. It is an act of aggression and insult for any independent country, for any sovereign country. When you are imposing a blockade, a political blockade, economic blockade and the social blockade on an independent country, it is an act of aggression. They accused Qatar that Qatar has a special relation with Iran, as an example. And they never imposed any of these measures against Iran from the other hand. So it is an act of aggression against the country for different reasons, not because of Iran.
Well, just let me -- I just want to -- about the funds of Qatar, which is going outside Qatar to fund --
They are not going to terrorist organizations. And if there is any Qatari who is involved in financing any terrorist organization, he will be held accountable for the wrongdoing he has done. And there are a few individual cases who are already in trial and some of them are convicted already.
Our -- if there is any charity, which operates under Qatar government system, they have to comply with the government system of the beneficiary country when they are operating there. So if there is any violation, it should be reported. And Qatar will take an action against them. We are against any hate preacher, whether it's in Qatar or outside Qatar. We believe that the world is suffering from terrorism, and all of us, we are -- we have to work together collectively in eradicating this.
I know that in America, in some countries, they look at some movements as terrorist movements. But there are differences. There are differences that some countries and some people that any group which comes from Islamic background are terrorist. And we don't accept that.
It is our position, as long as the terrorist is not defined as terrorist organization within the United Nation's Security Council. Or there is no proof that this organization is involved in violence. If there are political organizations with Islamic background, we have no problem. Or we have not designated them as terrorist organizations. But we have nothing to do to support them as political organizations, as long as they are operating outside Qatar.
Hamas representation and Qatar is a political office. It's not any military presentation there in Qatar. The political leadership of Hamas now, they are insiders. They are not -- there are some in Qatar, yes, but the ones who are on Qatar, they are involved in the national constellation which is Qatar working and facilitating. And it is also endorsed by the international community and also in coordination with the United States. Qatar's support doesn't go to Hamas. Their support goes to the people. And if we are going to provide a platform for any of the movement, it doesn't mean that we are -- we are endorsing their ideas. It's a matter of engagement -- of a platform provided for engagement in order to facilitate for peace talks or to be helpful in contributing to the peace.
Egypt, they are designating them as terrorist organization. They have to treat them -- they are treating them in Egypt as terrorist organization. But for me and Qatar, they are not designated as terrorist organization. And Qatar doesn't sponsor the Muslim brotherhood or it doesn't have a presence of the Muslim brotherhood. Muslim brotherhood are a political movement which operates Bahrain, which is one of the blockading country, and they are designating them as part of their demands. Now, a terrorist organization, why they are operating in the political -- in the parliament there in Bahrain, which shows you the double standard in this.
Dealing with al-Nurse, engaging as I told you, engaging with any organization doesn't mean endorsing their ideas. And for us as Qatar, we have facilitators to facilitate this. We don't have direct interaction with them.
Well, U.S. and Qatar relationship has been very strong, and they are playing a strong role in this. So the U.S. government is highly involved in this conflict. And there are also several steps being taken by them, which forced the blockading countries to submit their demands. So there is a role for the U.S. in mediating in this.
First off, President Trump's tweet here -- he is being told by leaders, leaders who imposed the blockade against Qatar. He didn't refer to the agencies of the United States, which we have -- everyone has followed the statements of the Department of Defense, or the State Department and the appreciation of their relationship with Qatar and Qatar contribution to countering terrorism. So the difference of the U.S. government agencies and the institution which has a long lasting relationship with the state of Qatar, they know very well the activity of Qatar and the way -- how cooperative Qatar is with the United States.
The president, when he tweeted, when he referred to --
A foreign leader, or he has -- his speech -- he is delivering his speech, and he's referring to a foreign leader, not to agencies. We take what's coming out from the agencies and whom agencies we are dealing with. President Trump has talked to Qatar's Emir. And in his calls, he was always insisting that these needs to be solved, this crisis, we agree, cannot afford any further escalation. And we believe this is the position of the United States.
Well, we believe that Qatar's independence and its policy may be a sort of driving force for this. Qatar policy, first of all, had been always independent, different view, yes, but never affected the collective security of the countries. It's never been -- meant to be affecting the collective security of the Gulf countries. And we don't want to compromise any of the Gulf countries' security, because we have a sequence of Qatar. So Qatar has been more progressive in different fronts than the other countries. Maybe this is one of the motives. And I believe mainly that small countries punching over its weight as you have mentioned is something annoying for big countries. And this is not a reflection -- but what Qatar is doing is not punching over its weight. Qatar is an active player in the international forum, using the international mechanism clearly and visibly with full transparency in front of everyone. And we are trying to bring people together. We are trying to make peace in the world, not to create wars in the world. We are trying to solve the problems by diplomacy and providing a platform. And this is a unique role big countries cannot play. Small countries can do.
Thank you very much.

Well, just let me respond to you about the funds of Qatar, which is going outside Qatar to fund --
No.
They are not going to terrorist organizations. And if there is any Qatari involved in financing any terrorist organizations, he will be held accountable for the wrongdoing he has done. And there are a few individuals who are already in a trial and some of them are convicted already.
If there are any charities which operates under a Qatar government system, they have to comply with the government system of the benefiting country when they are operating there. So if there's any violation, it should be reported, and Qatar will take an action against them. We are, again, when it's hate preacher, whether outside or inside Qatar, we believe the world is suffering from terrorism, and all of us, we have to work together collectively in eradicating this.
I know, in America, some countries, they look at some movements as terrorist movements. But there are differences. There are differences that some countries and some people, that any groups which comes from an Islamic background, are terrorists. And we do not accept that.
That is our position as long as the terrorist is not defined as terrorist organization within the United Nations Security Council or there is no proof that this organization is involved in violence. If they are, particular organizations with Islamic background, we have no problem, or we are not designating them as terrorist organizations. But we have nothing to do to support them as particular organizations as long as they are operating outside Qatar.
Hamas representation in Qatar is a political office. It is not any military presentation there in Qatar. Their political leadership of Hamas now, there are inside. There are some Qataris, but the ones who are in Qatar, they are involved in the national conservation, which is Qatar working and facilitating this. And they're also endorsed by the international community, and also in coordination with the United States. Qatar support doesn't go to Hamas. Qatar support go to people of Gaza (ph). And if we are going to provide a platform for any of the movement, it doesn't mean that we are endorsing their arguments. It's matter of engagement -- a platform for engagement in order to facilitate for peace talks or to be helpful in contributing to the peace.

Thank you, Richard, for hosting me to discuss this act of aggression carried out by Saudi Arabia, Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt against my country. Allow me to just take a step backward and remind the viewers that the whole crisis has erupted because of a cyber-attack against the Qatar news agency. That led to posting of the story, false and despite the fact that my government issued multiple statements to clarify the situation. Unfortunately, the blockading countries continued to deal with this matter as a true story.
The state of Qatar has demonstrated its constructive approach to resolving this crisis, and we have called many times for a meeting to sit and discuss this based on proof and evidence. Now it is up to the blockading countries to decide and come to the table.
I can assure you that there is no damage to our economy. Qatar is solid on its economy and we are comfortable, and we can't continue like this forever. However, my government is looking forward to have this crisis resolved and very quickly, because we believe this is counterproductive for everyone. And specifically, for the fight against terrorism.
We have to address this issue differently, what has been signed in Qatar is a bilateral agreement that supports the US led efforts towards fighting terrorism and if it's in the spirit of the conference. Therefore, as for the issues that are related to the crisis, I believe that our position was very clearly stated by the secretary when he said that we are reasonable, and we are engaging in a very productive manner. The question is, are there other countries being engaging in a constructive matter, this is a question that needs to be answered.
I think that it is in everyone's best interest to find an agreement on this crisis, I think again I would use reiterate that this is not beneficial for anyone. This is counterproductive. I believe Qatar has demonstrated its seriousness in finding a solution, we need to understand a few other countries are serious to find a solution on this crisis.
I think we have to be engaged in a very positive matter that will enable us to resolve this crisis as soon as possible, rather than having it stalled, a limit that would be difficult for us in the future to address these concerns. 16:45:00]
Thank you, sir.
