Good to be with you, Neal.
Well, I mean, it was obvious that he was very aware that he was being closely watched in the Middle East. And his speech sounded to a lot of Arabs and Muslims, and I'm sure it sounded to a lot of Israelis, like it was an extension of his yes-we-can campaign.
I mean, he's talking about the cynics, and the cynics, it has to be said, have good reason to be cynical this time around, as well. I mean, they've seen this before. They've heard it before. And in the end, it didn't come to much.
But the difference is that now he's talking about a Palestinian state when the General Assembly reconvenes next year. The timeframe is much, much shorter than we've heard from previous U.S. administrations.
The only thing is that whether he truly believes that or he does not. I think that there's a sense within the Obama administration that unless the conversation goes on in the Middle East then the worst could happen not just between the Israelis and the Palestinians in terms of violence but also serious complications between the Israelis and the Iranians.
And then the whole region, as we know, is combustible. So at least I think he's trying to tell both Arabs and Israelis that we must at least keep the conversation going.
I mean, he has so many different issues to address not just with Arabs and Muslims but also with his own public opinion obviously here in the United States, Americans being on the verge of the midterm election.
Obviously, for him, Iraq is a success story despite all the reservations about that judgment in the Middle East. We've all been hearing the noises that are coming out of Washington about the divisions within the Obama administration and the strategy he sees for Afghanistan.
So he is - I think one of the main things that he's holding onto at this particular point in time, in October, just a few weeks before the election, is this issue of the Middle East.
He can, at least, herald it as something that could offer a way out not just for the United States in the region but also as a way out, as a hope for both Israelis and Palestinians.
And obviously, that has repercussions both here in the United States and for his standing in the Middle East because as we know, initially people were very enthusiastic about President Barack Obama, but his standing in the Muslim world has gradually been degraded.
The problem that President Barack Obama faces in the Middle East is that he is damned if he does and damned if he does not. When he first assumed office, he raised hope so much in the region, that he could do so much for Israelis and Palestinians. And then the going really got tough. And then, as I said earlier, his standing, at least in the Arab world - and I have no reason to believe that it's not the same in Israel, as well - started to degrade.
Now, the point that you raise is that he is probably the very first president in a long, long time that hasn't decided to make the Middle East a top priority for his administration right from day one. And I think a lot of people in the region give him credit for that, but his problem - the problem that he's facing now is, as I said, is the amount of help that he actually initially raised.
The other problem that he has with Arabs and Israelis, is that every time he tries to open one door with one side, he seems to close a door with the other side. The issue, for example, of the Jewish character of the Israeli state, this is something that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has been adamant that the Palestinians accept if they want progress.
And this is clearly, to all intents and purposes, something that President Barack Obama has adopted as official U.S. policy, except that for the Arab side, regardless of what President Abbas says, the other side of the people - whether they are Palestinian or Arabs at large -this is the main reservation they have with that. If you acknowledge the Jewish character of the Israeli state, what implication will that have, first of all, for hundreds of thousands of Arabs, both Muslim and Christian, who live inside of Israel; and then what will the implications be for millions of Palestinian refuges and the issue of right of return? He is obviously trying extremely hard to circle - to square a circle. Good luck to him.
Great to be with you, Neal.

Great to be with you again, Michel.
Well, it's obviously extremely bad news for the people who were killed or injured in it. It's very bad news for the Obama administration given, obviously, all the debate here in the U.S. about, you know, whether he made the decision to withdraw from Afghanistan too soon or not. But for civilians in Afghanistan, obviously the U.S. and the Afghan forces, they need the support of civilians to prevail. This does not help them in that effort.
Well, public opinion, of course, is a very crucial element in this fight on both sides - on the side of the Taliban, but also on the side of the U.S., its allies and the Afghan forces. Regardless of who controls Kunduz now, the fact that the Taliban were able to actually be there for the first time in 14 years since they were toppled by the Bush administration is very significant. And, you know, whether they are still in control of Kunduz or whether they've actually been forced out, as the Afghan government is saying - the thing is, they were there, it was humiliating for the Afghan forces. So this is really bad news.
Well, first of all, I mean in terms of Afghanistan and Syria - I mean, it really is extraordinary that there seems to be a musical chairs in terms of who gets bogged down where. The Russians got bogged down in Afghanistan, they got out and then the Americans post 9/11. And the warning that we heard from John Kerry in that interview to the Russians is basically if you continue on this trajectory, then you will not only lead to greater destruction in Syria but you, yourselves, will get bogged down in Syria. You're not making this any easier for anyone - certainly not for yourselves and not for the Syrians, who are now fleeing Syria by the hundreds of thousands.
Great to be with you, Michel.

Well, the French president called it an act of war, but he was stating the obvious. It had been a state of war between various governments and these groups, whether it's ISIS or others. And it's a vicious cycle. And unfortunately, civilians - whether in France or elsewhere, such as, you know, in Syria or Lebanon or Egypt, it's civilians who are paying the price at such a high rate, unfortunately.
Well, obviously, you know, the people being mourned, whether in Paris or elsewhere in the world, are obviously the primary victims and their families. But as you say, there's a flow of refugees from Syria, and everybody's describing it as unprecedented since the Second World War. And these people are -you know, they will find themselves high and dry trying to gain access to safety but being rejected because of legitimate fears - who may be among them - the few who may be willing to carry out these attacks. Look, the source of the issue is what is happening in Syria, what's been happening in Syria in 2015. And so far, all the parties have failed to find a solution to that. Fighting ISIS is one part of it, but what to do with the regime of Bashar al-Assad, who, by, you know, the position of the Americans, the position of the French and many others, is the original source that started all this problem. The Russians are basically fighting on his side and making the situation even more - much more intractable.
I do, and I lived in Europe for many, many years before coming to the United States. And obviously, the nature of immigration to Europe in general - to France in particular - is different from the nature of immigration from the Middle East, from the Muslim world, to the United States. I mean, the perception here in the United States - despite everything that has been said about Islam and Muslims in the United States since 9/11 - but the perception is that immigrants from the Muslim world are faring much better than they are in many parts of Europe, particularly in a country like France, as Arsalan has said, where the rejection has been so internalized by several generations of immigrants. And, you know, the rejection becomes mutual. It goes in both ways. Society rejects them, but they also reject society that has ousted them over the decades. You know, there's another dimension to it which separates Europe from the United States, and that is geographical proximity. Europe is so close to North Africa, so close to the Middle East. And in terms of just the sheer size of the human exchange between North Africa and Europe, for example, it makes it very difficult for the Europeans to have the kind of Islam that they want to have in Europe. But it also makes it very difficult for the immigrant communities to find the kind of environment that they would want to find. For example, the issue of imams in French mosques has always been a contentious issue because many of these imams are imported from North African countries. And basically, their worldview is different from European worldview. And therefore, what they preach tends to be sometimes problematical from the point of view of the host country. These problems do exist to a certain extent in the United States as well, but they're not as accentuated as they are in Europe.
I mean, my final thought is that I hope something good may come out of something really, really bad, as what we're seeing in France, what we saw in Beirut, what we saw in Egypt, what we have been seeing in Syria over the past four or five years.
The good thing would be that, you know, the focus on what is happening now, what's happened in Paris is good to try to deal with this tragedy. But you also have to take a longer view because just focusing on combating terrorism while being forgetful of some of the reasons that actually feed it - even by the admission of many Western governments, including the government of the United States, does not actually help the fight against terrorism long-term.
Thank you.

Good to be with you, Michel.
Well...
It's a change of tone. It's very difficult for him to apologize to someone who has violated the sovereignty of his country. And remember that for him, from where he stands, this is not the first time that the Russians have violated Turkish airspace. This is about the third time, so he sees a pattern emerging there at a time when the Russians are playing a more forceful role in Syria, which is obviously of great concern to the Turks.
Well, he's obviously under a lot of pressure. He's under a lot of pressure from many of his allies - in Europe, here in the United States - to calm things down. Turkey is a member of NATO. And if it goes to war against Russia, that means that, you know, Europe and NATO would have to support Turkey. And I don't see anybody ready at this particular point in time to engage militarily. Economically there's a lot of noise between the Turks and the Russians now. There are a lot of Russians who go and do business, a lot of tourists who go to Turkey. And the Russians may be able to push that to a certain extent. But the economic interests between the two countries are so big that if you were to sever completely business and economic relations the two, both of them would pay an exorbitant price.
Well, the - obviously, the deeper text is the fundamental difference between the Turks and the Russians when it comes to what's going on in Syria. The Russians are obviously in there - at least in the perception of the Turks and perhaps more than just reception - to actually buttress the regime of Bashar al-Assad. So the Turks want Bashar to go - that remains the fundamental difference between the two sides. But remember that the Turks have other interests in Syria. There are minorities of Turkic origin who are now part of the opposition to the regime of Bashar al-Assad. Recently, they've come under attack from the Russian air force. So it's an explosive cocktail of visions for where Syria is going between the Turks and the Russians.
Well, we have seen, you know, the idea of the two leaders meeting in Paris confirmed by both Ankara and Moscow. We haven't heard any confirmation from Moscow that yes, they - that Putin would meet Erdogan in Paris. We've heard a lot of, you know, war of words still coming out of both Ankara and Moscow, the Russians basically preparing, you know, new sanctions - economic sanctions - against Turkey. But ultimately, it would be really difficult for the two leaders to be in the same place under the circumstances and not talk about this in one way or another, particularly that now you have some of Turkey's allies putting pressure on the Turks to actually calm down a little bit, as they say.
Good to be with you.

Great to be with you, Michel.
No, we don't. There's obviously a lot of uncertainty. There has been some expectation that trouble was brewing for some time, especially that he, Erdogan, has been talking about a possible coup for well over a year now.
But he's always accused - well, for some time he's been accusing a former partner of his who is now living in exile here in the United States, Fethullah Gulen, of trying to foment trouble back in Turkey. And he accuses Gulen here in the United States of being at the top of it.
Fethullah Gulen is somebody who had partnered with Erdogan to sort of counter in Turkey the leftists and the Kemalists and the liberals - had been very critical of Erdogan, saying that he wants to reestablish the caliphate.
However, a few years ago, they parted company. They disagreed on the strategy. So Gulen is much more than just a religious leader. He's also a businessman. He runs schools, religious schools, even here in the United States. And Erdogan has been pressing the Obama administration to extradite him back to Turkey. But the Obama administration has been saying, look, this is a Turkish domestic row, and the United States has no place in it.
What we've heard from Kerry seems to suggest that issue will be strongly revisited now that Erdogan has yet again accused Gulen of being behind the attempted coup.
Well, his influence is quite tentacular (ph). He has followers inside Turkey, not just among the population. He has followers in the army and the police, in the legal corps inside Turkey. Whether he is actually behind the coup, we don't know. He has actually - Gulen has condemned the attempted coup after it happened.
There's been a wave of arrests touching various places of political power and military power and legal power in Turkey. But it's quite clear that obviously even Erdogan's critics did rally to his call to actually take to the streets to prevent the coup from succeeding.
What the next step is going to be, we still don't know. The speaker of the parliament has said that the coup will bring everybody closer together - easier said than actually done in the current climate. It's very difficult to actually see what the next - even the next week will bring to the political climate in Turkey.
The image that it has projected to the outside world is that Erdogan's position is actually - is much more tenuous than we have been led to believe over the last few years. Now he has a divided army. Will he be able now to confront all these external challenges with a fractured army in addition to - once the wave of support has worn out - will he be able to carry the day? There are a lot of questions about that now.
Good to be with you, Michel.

Good to be with you.
I think it's both. Obviously he is the kind of guy who thinks that it's never over until it's over. He's had a couple - a rough couple of weeks with what happened with the rollout of the Muslim ban, as it's called, banning citizens from seven majority countries, as it's called. Then he's had the whole Mike Flynn saga.
And it seems to me that now he's trying to operate on two familiar grounds. One is business. The other one is the ground of his base in politics. As we all know, it's all about timing. The trip to North Carolina to talk about jobs is obviously - given his business background, is something that he feels much more comfortable talking about...
...On the way to Florida to meet with his base with a message that he is doing some of the things that he promised to do during the campaign.
And this obviously comes against the backdrop of a large issue, which obviously (laughter) by the time he's done in North Carolina and Florida is...
And South Carolina is not going to go away.
And that's the Mike Flynn issue.
Well, you know, I'm - like all of us, we are from the press. And I obviously have no compunction about being critical about the role and the behavior of the press whether under this presidency or any other presidency. Obviously what happened in that press conferences is - as we heard, he was obviously playing to the gallery, except that he was playing to the gallery at a time when the United States public opinion is very polarized and a lot of people are talking about the need to build bridges among Americans.
There was a time when there was much to blame in the behavior of the media. I mean if you look back at the campaign, there was a time when the media basically did dish out the narrative that Hillary Clinton was going to win. And that didn't happen. But it's one thing blaming the media for not having the right behavior and the right attitude. It's another thing saying that everything that the media when it criticizes you is dishing out fake news. I think that coming from the president of the most powerful country in the world, perhaps the most powerful country in history - it's not a very healthy narrative to have.
Thank you.

Good to be with you, Michel.
Well, their reactions run the whole gamut. You have countries like Saudi Arabia and Turkey who have been pressing for years to have Assad ousted. They haven't had any success with that. But when the strike happened, they basically saw something very positive in it. There are neighbors who were against it. The Iranians echoing the Russian position are obviously strongly opposed. They have a big stake in Syria. They have a big stake like the Russians in Bashar al-Assad actually staying in power. So they are opposed to this strike.
And then there are those who are ambiguous. Egypt, for example - it's historically - there's always been a sort of alliance between Cairo and Damascus, and anything that happens to Bashar al-Assad in Damascus, the Egyptians, Cairo, would see it as a threat to the region. Having said that, they have called for the United States and Russia to sort of try and sort out the situation diplomatically. So as you can see, the reactions - as would have been expected - they run the whole gamut.
Quite frankly, people in the Middle East, in Europe and elsewhere had begun to despair about Trump doing anything decisive in foreign policy. And this obviously came as a big surprise. I mean, take the Europeans, for example, we talked about refugees over and over. And they have borne the brunt of the refugee crisis from Syria to such an extent that the European Union was on the brink of coming undone.
So for them to see President Donald Trump sort of go out of his shell and finally try to deal with the situation in Syria in his own way was a welcome sign from what we could make out to many of them. Remains to be seen how the situation evolves and what implications, what repercussions it would have for them as well as for Syria's neighbors in the Middle East.
If you talk to the Syrian opposition in areas that the opposition - as it's called the moderate opposition to Bashar al-Assad is located in Syria - obviously, they are so desperate. They have been so desperate in recent months because everybody had been predicting the death of the opposition in light of the military victories that Bashar al-Assad and his Russian and Iranian allies and Hezbollah have been scoring.
So this may not be total sucker to them, but it's definitely given them hopes that at least this administration doesn't seem to be completely disengaged from the Syria conflict because there was a lot of acrimony against the Obama administration. They felt that, you know, he'd cut them loose, whether that was true or not. But now they feel that with this at least President Trump is sending a message, not just to Bashar al-Assad but to the international community that he is focused on what's going on in Syria and hasn't bequeathed the crisis completely to the Russians.
Great to be with you, Michel.

Thanks, Michel.
I mean, first of all, you have to recall that the Sinai part of Egypt has unique character and a unique history. It was occupied by the Israelis, and then the Egyptians got back from the Israelis. It's always been an area with security concerns. And Egypt has seen armed insurgency in its recent history - 30, 40 years. It ebbed and flowed. In 2014, specifically in the Sinai Peninsula, that insurgency has found new life. The locals in the Sinai Peninsula have always complained for a long time that they've been ignored in terms of development by the central government in Cairo.
And in many ways, the insurgency has found fertile ground to grow, particularly since the current president, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, when he deposed the elected president of Egypt in the summer of 2013. It was expected that the insurgency would grow. And now, we're obviously talking about a - an ISIS presence. So, you know, the terrorist threat in the Sinai, although it had existed in various forms in the past, now that, you know, you have affiliates of ISIS, it has obviously taken new and bigger significance.
The issue of terrorist attacks and terrorism in Egypt, this is a very, very, very serious situation, not just in the Sinai but in various parts of the country. Remember that there have been attacks in recent years even in Cairo, where the central government is obviously seated. But the scale and the toll of this particular attack is unprecedented. The official figures are talking about over 300 people killed and over a hundred injured among them children.
So it is a major challenge for the government of President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi in all manner of ways. It casts doubt over the policy that he has tried to pursue to combat terrorism. And a lot of voices will be telling him that, look, your strategy for combating terrorism is not working because combating terrorism, yes, you have to be tough using the army and the police, but there are other components, including basically local political participation and opening up the system. And so far, since 2013, it's been - Egypt has been run by an iron fist, not allowing for that kind of participation.
Probably not. It's very difficult to get the full picture. But you'll get a lot of news outlets, obviously, because of the importance of Egypt, have invested a lot of time and effort to actually build contacts and network of contacts with local Egyptians everywhere. So in terms of military information, unless it filters through the filters of the government, it doesn't come out. So you have to have alternatives. It's now that those contacts that you build as a journalist have become very, very important because at least they help give you an alternative view of what's happening.
You're welcome.
