Hi.
Well, I think we would all love a peaceful resolution to this. The Iraqi people are the most that do not want Saddam Hussein to drag us yet into another third war. Unfortunately, we doubt that he is going to give us that luxury. Saddam Hussein does have weapons of mass destruction. He is preparing -- has a program to have nuclear weapons. President Bush has said this. Prime Minister Tony Blair has said this. The previous inspectors, UNSCOM, said this. The Security Council believes this. The question is not does he have the weapons of mass destruction? The question is that they have to go in and disarm him and he's not going to do that voluntarily.
Well, I mean, really the ball's in Saddam's park. We've tried now, coming on to 12 years of diplomacy, 12 years of sanctions, 12 years of punitive military action. Nothing has worked with Saddam. He continues to carry out this program to develop his WMD weapons, chemical and biological and to get a nuclear bomb. Unfortunately, it is clear that the only way the world will be safe from Saddam acquiring a nuclear weapon is by regime change.
On the contrary, it wasn't fractious at all. It was a show of complete unity and solidarity. We came out with two working papers that will give us the road map to a future democratic, unified Iraq. We created a 65-member council that will be meeting in northern Iraq, hopefully, sometime next month to continue the work of the conference. The Iraqi opposition is very united, its goal to affect regime change and to establish democracy in Iraq. But don't forget, we are a coalition of different political parties, like the Republicans and Democrats. We don't want to be a one-party state. There will be different, diverse views and different agendas. But the important thing is for the Iraqi people to have the right to choose a system of government they want and to choose who governs them through the ballot box and not through the barrel of a gun.
Well, let's look at the facts. In 1991, after the end of the war, after the ceasefire, after the allies stopped attacking Saddam, the Iraqi people, led by the Iraqi opposition, rose up against Saddam Hussein and liberated three- quarters of the country. We would have got the rest had he been prevented from using his helicopters and heavy armor, and that is the problem that the opposition has. We can't take on his heavy units.
Well, I think, had the United States and its allies followed through, they wouldn't be dispatching hundreds of thousands of troops to a region now to threaten Saddam to back off and implement U.N. resolutions. The issue has not been resolved. And that is why it is so important that this time, Saddam is not let off the hook once again, because there will be no second chances. The job has to be finished now. The Iraqi people are ready to participate and to bring down the regime, but we need support from the international community.
Thank you. TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 800-CNN-NEWS OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT www.fdch.com

All parties to a conflict must of course abide by international humanitarian law and we will call them out whoever the attacker may be.
Well, if I can begin, Christiane, by just pointing out over the last 24 hours, we have seen a lull in terms of the aerial raids in Eastern Aleppo. That is not to say that raids in other part of the government have not taken place, they have. But in Eastern Aleppo, we have a lull. What we are saying is that the aerial bombing as of the 22nd of October seemed to be of such an indiscriminate nature, where a number of facilities have been struck, where civilians have borne the brunt of the damage essentially. Yes, that the allegation is that this sort of bombing is very much in keeping with what we would consider to be war crimes to be proven later in a court. But that's exactly what we're saying, yes.
Well, it's not that if we don't see a consequence, we shouldn't speak. I think we have a duty to speak out when we see this sort of bombing. No matter where it may be taking place. Whether it's in Syria, in Yemen and Afghanistan, all parties to a conflict must of course abide by international humanitarian law and we will call them out whoever the attacker may be. The -- you know, even in conflict, there must be rules and civilian life must be spared to the greatest extent possible. Whether it has ultimately an effect, we don't know. But, certainly, if we didn't speak, we couldn't expect any change in the approaches to this sort of aerial assault on civilian targets. It seems to be indiscriminate in many cases.
In all cases, we expect that to be a rigorous investigation undertaken. And to, for it to be proven to us, that every, every measure was taken to avoid civilian casualties when targeting a particular group or other. And in the event that there is no investigation, then the allegation stands sort of basically unproven until we can get to a court of law, but the suspicion is very much there that these sorts of crimes are being committed. And instead of entering into a debate with us, sort of telling me that I should be speaking or I'm overstepping my mark, I think it's, it will be more proper for the investigations to take place and for evidence to be presented to us showing us that, that every measure was taken to prevent civilian casualties again.
No, it's a very serious point. I was trying to be very clear that I didn't equate Daesh and the monstrous crimes with the actions of the populists, what I was trying to say is that these populists use half-truths and over-simplification, to carry support, to win support and place blame on a very distinct community. And in the case of the populists, they're going after vulnerable communities for all the ills and all the pain and frustration that many people feel in Europe and in the United States. And it's inexcusable to do that. It's oversimplification, use of half- truths, and you and I served in the former Yugoslavia many years ago, we saw with our own eyes the consequences of these sorts of actions.
Yes, yes, and Sergey Lavrov is an official and dare I say also a friend who I respect greatly. But here I would beg to differ. The relevant article in the U.N. charter, Article 27, which essentially prevents the U.N. from intervening in the domestic affairs of state has to be read in its proper context. Intervene means when it plans to take coercive measures or coercive measures are undertaken. Criticism of the conduct of a government, its policies, does not in our reading, fit that description. So I see it well within my mandate as given to me, to offer critical comment when I need to. And also, to offer encouragement when I should do so. And so I don't see that I'm overstepping my mark on this.
To be honest on this, I have -- I mean, the Russian permanent representative did say that he objected to comments I made regarding certain leaders. He denies that I, that he raised Trump as one of them. But I have expressed my concerns about Donald Trump and what he has said about possibly bringing back torture, which is clearly prohibited in the convention against torture. And other things that he has said, which raises dangers and threats to the human rights of many people should he act on them and were he to be elected president. And so I've been open about those issues, too.
Thank you very much, Christiane.

Yeah, again, looking at this vote in the Security Council, I think years ago it would have been unimaginable that we couldn't brief on Syria.
I think so.
I think so. I think so. I served on the U.N. Security Council a few years ago and I think that would have been the case. But in overall terms, you know, at the Human Rights Council in Geneva, there is no U.S. ambassador that's been appointed, which is rather, sort of, stark, and you sense the absence. And the feeling is that, yes, there's certain issues which either the president has spoken about, whether we go back to the executive orders of his presidency, or since then. Of course, we have the whole...
The travel bans and of course the issue of the dreamers and the DACA and how we are in a sort of -- almost in a state of limbo, and then the -- the various comments that the president has made in respect of race, in respect of gender, Charlottesville, Arpaio, all these issues, and the attacks on journalists. And we were extremely concerned because not only is it out of sync with what the historical experience has been, at least since the Second World War, for U.S. governments, but also it provides an example for others to mimic what the U.S. has been saying and doing.
Yes.
Well, the relationship I have with my own country, I mean emotionally, it's a country that I love a great deal and I have a great deal of devotion for. But professionally, I do not distinguish it from any other country. And if we believe there are positive developments, we will cite them, and there have been a few in respect of the human rights of women. If there are negative developments, we will also speak about these negative developments. But I think any more objective examination of the record will bear out that we have tried to be and my office tries to be as fair as we can possibly be. It's one of the -- one of the small sacrifices that one has to make, unfortunately, when one has this sort of position, that you will lose the support of those who want you to be partisan and you simply cannot in this position.
In the end, Fareed, it's -- when you see human rights defenders, usually journalists and lawyers, around the world, who are willing to forfeit everything -- everything, a chance to be with their families, to be with their friends -- knowing that, if they publish a piece, if they report on a corruption story, or if they speak out about abuse of authority, that that's going to land them in jail, maybe even be tortured, possibly never see their families again, and yet they still do it. And it's a courage of a sort that normal people are not used to seeing. And we see a great deal of it. And that inspires many of us to be more courageous. It's not easy to speak out constantly about these issues, but you do it because the victims need you to do it. And the other human rights defenders, who are the real heroes in this confrontation of ideas because they're willing to risk their lives, they inspire us. And so, you know, in the end, it's not a -- it's a no-brainer; you end up -- you do it because it's the right thing.
Thank you so much. Thank you, Fareed.

Well, the point that you made I think was an important one, Fareed, that the opprobrium across the world was very clear. There must be a humane way by which those seeking asylum can access not just legal help but are entitled to individual assessment. And if there are conditions of detention, they must be a last resort and the detention must be kept to a minimum, especially where children are concerned. And clearly the separation of children from families is absolutely prohibited under international human rights law. And even if the U.S. is not party to the treaty that governs this, it needs to respect international standards. And so, as you said, we were pleased to see that the president has reversed course on this.
Oh, yes. The U.S. is the only country not to have acceded to it, and certainly it should. But again, even if it doesn't carry that obligation, it should meet and respect the international standard. And it's simply, of course, not good for the reputation of the United States worldwide. The United States has been a chief architect of the human rights system that we have in place that was put together after the Second World War. And so to be taking such measures is clearly -- it doesn't do itself any credit. And again, I think the response that you cited is demonstrative of that.
Well, there is certainly a point to be made on composition and we ourselves have said that especially if you have members who are not cooperating with my office, which is distinct from the Human Rights Council, or other human rights mechanisms, then they, of course, should -- their whole membership, membership needs to be revisited, and we agreed. And I have cited, for example, in the past, the examples of Venezuela and Burundi being members who are not cooperating with the council and therefore, their membership needs to be reviewed, and --
-- the resolution that set it up.
Well, I think you've hit the nail right on the head. You're absolutely right, Fareed. We produced our second report on Venezuela. It is a hard-hitting report. My office produced it. And the Human Rights Council is a place of destination. That's where the report would normally be considered informally because it hasn't been asked of me to produce it. And when we look in the past, we did the same on Yemen, for example, where we produced a succession of reports. And after three years, the Human Rights Council produced an investigation, an international investigation. And we've asked now the same for Venezuela. We've asked the same for the situation in Kashmir on both sides of the line of control. And like that, you're absolutely right, if the U.S. is not at the table to discuss these issues, then it's hard to see how you can move them forward. And so one hopes that the U.S. would reconsider its position. It seems to be premised almost entirely, if one were to speak openly, about the issue of the Item Seven, the so-called Item Seven, where there's a singular agenda item for the occupied Palestinian territories, and Israel feels that, of course, and from the view of the United States, that it's being singled out. But that seems to be the principal cause for its departure.
Well, I think the record shows that while this may have well been the case, you know, 10 to 15 years ago, over the last 10 years, the number of resolutions focused on Israel has dropped, and others -- you know, our viewing of other crises and other human rights situation has expanded. And clearly, if there was a political horizon in terms of advancing the peace process, and I think the movement of the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem has complicated the possibilities of coming out with a result. And now it does look very difficult. Admittedly, I don't see an easy way to resolve that particular problem, but my hope is that the U.S. would re-evaluate its position and come back. And we still have a lot of important work to do and yes, the U.N. -- the U.S. does play an important role.
Thank you, Fareed.
