Thanks a lot.
Well, you know, first off, I think my own analysis largely matches up with Rajiv's observations. I think that where you can establish some degree of correlation between where we've had a high troop-to-population ratio, such as in the south and R.C. Southwest. And you can see gains in security, where we have had a lower troop-to-population ratio, such as in R.C. East - that's Regional Command East - we have seen the conflict worsen.
You know, in comparison to both John's assessment, as well as Bing West, and I respect both men tremendously, I think I'm going to be a little more cautious on passing judgment on the success or failure of the current strategy until the summer, and I'll tell you why.
We often make the mistake in America of thinking of the fighting season in Afghanistan like the baseball season, you know, it starts in early spring, and it winds up sometime around October or November, earlier if you're a Nationals fan.
But the reality is is that the fighting in Afghanistan never really ceases at any point, especially not in southern Afghanistan. And although the conflict is more kinetic, that is to say there's a lot more shooting going on in the summer, a campaign of fear and intimidation still rules the roost in the winter.
That having been said, the conflict is cyclical to a degree. It heats up in the summer. And so for a civilian analyst like myself, looking at the conflict, I have to look at the data of, say, one district in one month of a year.
So I look at the Arghandab River Valley, where we've seen, where we think we've seen, tremendous security gains over the past 12 months, but I'm going to wait and reserve judgment until around June, July, August so I can look and see: Okay, how does security incidents in June, July, August of 2010 match up against security incidents of June, July, August 2011.
That's different from, say, for example, the conflict in Iraq, where we surged in, and you saw a pretty precipitous drop of ethno-sectarian violence almost immediately after the surge.
Yeah, first off, let me just echo that. A lot of families have sacrificed very - a lot in this campaign, in this war. And I have several friends who did not make it back.
Populations in civil wars in general are just trying to survive, and they'll survive by hedging, by swinging back and forth, by trying to stay on the sidelines. And the goal for both the Taliban as well as the government of Afghanistan and its NATO and U.S. allies, is to try to get them to choose sides.
What we see in Afghanistan and elsewhere is where we are able to establish a presence, where we are able to really control the population, you start to see collaboration. You start to see the population picking a side, and that's certainly been the case in the east and in the north.
In the south, meanwhile, that is actually where we're still waiting on a degree of - I want to say collaboration or cooperation from the population. One of the big problems we have with the Afghan National Army, which so far has been a success story over the past 18 months or so, is that we've still not seen the participation from Pashtun southerners and its officer corps. And there's a real danger that it's going to become, you know, a military thats dominated by presence from the north.
Right, so unfortunately - or from, you know, Pashtun from other areas. So unfortunately, the jury is still out on this. But the caller has hit on the exact right question to be asking right now.
Absolutely right.
Yeah, I mean, today, actually, I was looking at my watch on the way down here on the Metro, today is the ninth anniversary of the first time I left Afghanistan on the first of my two military deployments there.
And so I'm deeply conscious of how long we have been in Afghanistan. But the comment on Iraq I think is deeply telling. Really starting around the time I first left Afghanistan in 2002, we redirected the vast majority of our available military and intelligence resources away from Afghanistan to Iraq, which is why Afghanistan has languished so much, really until about 18, 24 months ago.
Whether or not this new commitment of resources to Afghanistan makes a difference remains to be seen. In this type of counterinsurgency campaign, the best you can hope for, really victory, is setting the security conditions for some sort of peaceful political process to go forward.
And really, I think that the type of reconciliation, the type of negotiations that would lead to long-term security in Afghanistan, for understandable reasons, U.S. and Afghan officials are mum about the status of such negotiations with the Taliban or with Pakistan.
But those really are the key, and they're - I would say that unless you get some sort of political reconciliation, the most you can hope to do is keep security conditions in place ad infinitum.
Thanks, Jeff.
Absolutely.
That's right.
That's right. And what the ISAF command wants to do, what General Petraeus wants to do is by the summer, he's going to want to start moving a lot of those troops that we have in the south and repositioning them in the east, in kind of the greater Paktia region where Shah's( family lives - is from.
You know, Rajiv is a hundred percent correct that you have to establish security. You have to establish a degree of control over the environment. And with all due respect to the caller, the idea that we can do good works, that we can build roads, that we can build schools, and that - this is going to somehow address drivers of conflict, that's unfortunately proven to be incorrect.
As a matter of fact, a lot of the money that we're putting into Afghanistan is distorting the conflict in Afghanistan and creating perverse incentives to where none of the actors - the insurgents, the government - has an interest in the United States leaving. What we have to do is establish some degree of security which then allows us to build up local Afghan forces, and that then sets the conditions for some sort of political settlement.
But Rajiv is correct where we have not been able to surge troops, where we are still fighting an economy of force mission, that is where the Taliban is winning. And the same way that when we had the vast majority of our resources devoted to Iraq, Afghanistan worsened, and that's to be expected.
I know what General Petraeus and what the other commanders at ISAF want to do. They want to gradually shift our resources from the south into the east whether they're allowed or able to do that in light of the expectations in Washington that we're going to begin a drawdown in July very much remains to be seen.
That's also true.
That's right.
Right.
Look, the Pakistanis have been pursuing a pretty logical hygiene strategy since about 2005. As soon as we started to divert resources away from Afghanistan, the Pakistanis began to quite logically plan for a post-American, post-Western Afghanistan, and that meant reconstituting a lot of the proxy groups that would represent Pakistan's interests in a post-Western Afghanistan.
The - now, at the time or right at this moment, Pakistan is very frustrated with the United States. There's - you see Pakistani officials...
Absolutely. You see Pakistani officials quoted in the press saying that you have to either trust the ISI or not trust them because the Pakistani security service has been very helpful, quite honestly, in helping the United States and its allies target al-Qaida and those insurgent groups which threaten Pakistan.
But the reason the United States can't be fully trustful of the Pakistanis is because we know that they have been arming, training, supporting those insurgent groups which threaten the state in Afghanistan.
General Petraeus says he has two strategic Achilles' heels right now. One is Afghan governance. We've never figured out how to make the Afghan government more responsive to the needs of its people. The second is sanctuaries in Pakistan. We have not figured out in all these nine and a half years of conflict a way to address those sanctuaries.
Sure.
Well, I mean, first off, the atrocities that were detailed in not just the article in Rolling Stone but also in the official investigations are horrific. They point to an ineffective noncommissioned and commissioned officer corps, not just ineffective noncommissioned officer corps but a maligned noncommissioned, you know, officer corps in that particular unit.
And, you know, the caller is implying that those types of atrocities actually have a strategic effect, and the answer to that is they absolutely do. We've seen that in Iraq, for example, the actions of, you know, a couple junior enlisted soldiers in a prison detail in Abu Ghraib had a horrific strategic effect on not just the war in Iraq but also on U.S. interests all over the Middle East.
We've seen in Afghanistan that a lone, you know, I hesitate to use the word pastor who burns a Quran in Florida has a strategic effect on northern Afghanistan, you know, which had been relatively peaceful until the horrific events outside the U.N. compound in Balkh province.
And the reality is, again, that the incidents in the Kandahar province with the Stryker Brigade are unforgivable, and they do have a strategic effect.
The good news is that the vast majority - I mean, it really is the exception to the rule. We have an incredibly competent and moral commissioned and noncommissioned officer corps in Afghanistan.
And the fact that the all-volunteer force has been able to maintain such a high level of discipline even after a decade of combat is really a testament to our men and women in our armed services.
That's right, yeah. I'm going to look at - again, I think you have to measure security by district - that's one useful metric - and to look at, you know, again, how does the violence in the Arghandab River Valley look from July 2010 to July 2011. That's one useful thing to look at.
In terms of the Afghan national security forces, I wouldn't focus on quantity, you know, how many kandaks we're rolling out, how many officers are we producing. But I would look at, you know, there are some other key metrics to look at.
How many noncommissioned officers report for duty every day within the Afghan national security forces? What percentage of the officer corps serving in southern Afghanistan are Pashtun from southern Afghanistan. These are things that don't necessarily point to quantity but point towards more quality or the performance of these units under fire.
It's very difficult to put a quantitative assessment on the performance of a, you know, unit under fire, but I think we can make a pretty good qualitative assessment of how well the Afghan National Army and Afghan National Police are doing on the ground.
Yeah. Let me just say, Rajiv is right not to look at violence in one sense. We said don't worry about the violence in southern Afghanistan last year because we're contesting that area. In eastern Afghanistan, if we start to move there, expect violence to go up.
The problem is, after we surge into an area, if the violence doesn't eventually plateau and then go back down, at that point we've got a problem because we don't have any sustainable security.

Yeah, it's great go be here.
Well, you know, first off, it's an honor to be on a program with - Iraq taught me as a junior officer that sometimes it's best not to listen to the supposed wisdom of your elders, but in this case it's pleasure to serve with two long-time mentors, you know, Gary and Tom.
I think that, you know, for me, when I look at the Iraq War, I think there were lots of reasons to found. Both, you know, I was proud to have been part of the task force that captured Saddam Hussein, and that was - you know, we freed Iraq from this horrible dictatorship.
But in terms of was it worth it, absolutely not. When you look at the trillion dollars that we spent, when you look at – I think - and I apologize if my number is incorrect, but I think 4,483 U.S. servicemen killed in Iraq, and that's, you know, not even counting the just tens of thousands of Iraqi civilian casualties that we saw, just a horrific war.
You know, you think back to the maelstrom of violence in 2005, 2006, 2007, which Tom was a firsthand witness to, and it's hard to say that the war was with it. And in addition, especially for me as also an Afghanistan veteran, the way in which we shifted the vast majority of our military and intelligence resources away from Afghanistan and are now dealing with the aftermath of that decision today.
So I don't take too much away from it positive. I mean, the big strategic lesson for me, you know, in addition this is the strategic lesson of the war in Vietnam as well, don't elect Texans president. But I think that we in the military learned a lot of smaller lessons that we've brought with us to Afghanistan, sometimes incorrectly.
And I've seen a lot of my peers who are still junior officers in the U.S. Army have faith that they're going to take a lot of the lessons that they've learned about these types of engagements, about these types of political wars, and a lot of just hard-won lessons of close-quarters combat that they'll take with them over the course of their military careers.
Yeah, that's right. For the conventional forces, they've got about another two years to get through before we really bottom out in Afghanistan. The Special Operations Forces, both our U.S. Army Special Forces, will continue their train and advisory mission. And, you know, the U.S. Navy Seals, the U.S. Army Ranger regiment, and some of our special missions units will still be quit active in Afghanistan and other operating theaters as we go forward.
I want to just touch on something that Tom talked about. He talked about the resilience of the U.S. military, and one of the things that for me as a young veteran is really frustrating, I mean, I very much appreciate the way in which, you know, society is not sensitized to PTSD and to, you know, to what soldiers have gone through in Iraq.
But I worry that, you know, an entire class of veterans have been stigmatized. The reality is that if you go into the all-volunteer force, if you talk to, you know, young junior officers, senior, non-commissioned officers who - you know, veterans of multiple deployments, it's remarkable the degree to which they are doing just fine. And that's the case for most young veterans, as well.
So I think that you can't over-emphasize that. Having said that, it's come at a cost. You know, we have this professional military, but it's largely cut off from the rest of society. So basically just, you know, .5 percent of the, you know, the United States population really has a stake in this war, maybe one percent if you include their families and whatnot.
And that does lead to a worry that I have. You know, Travis, the caller from the 101st Airborne, raised the possibility that we're not going to intervene. I'm actually OK with that. I think we should be a little more humble about using U.S. military power in an expeditionary sense, and we should be more humble about what it can achieve.
That having been said, I completely agree with Gary that we've learned a lot of valuable lessons from both Iraq and Afghanistan, and even though stabilization operations have gone out of vogue in 2011, we'll see if they go back into fashion in 2012 if North Korea collapses.
So true, that's so true. You know, for me, I think I had it pretty easy in 2003. When I look at my friends who were company commanders during 2007, during the height of the surge. They had a much different and more intense experience than I did.
I think Gary's right there. I actually am somewhat surprised by Tom. I think Tom's right to be worried about Iraq, especially given the authoritarian tendencies of Nouri al-Maliki, which have come to the fore just really over the past few days, even more than before.
But I think Gary's also right that the Iraqis - and we learned this the hard way in 2003 - don't particularly like foreign intervention in their country and that they have a very strong sense of what it means to be Iraqi and are not going to just quietly acquiesce to Iranian whims.
Well, I think the Department of Defense does a good job looking after military personnel. I think the Veterans Administration does a - has historically done a poorer job. Although I agree with Tom, I think you've got some great folks over there at the VA that are trying to amend that. You know, George Washington said that a nation will go to war - men will be willing to serve under arms depending on how the veterans of previous wars were treated.
And so I think it's a national security issue that we treat our veterans well because if you're in high school and you see veterans being maltreated on the streets of the United States, you see veterans not being taken cared of when they return, how likely are you going to, you know, enlist in the Marines or the Ranger regiment?
Yeah. Well, first off, Luke, thanks for getting in touch. I think, you know, in terms of our loss of the moral high ground, you know, Tom is right, and, Neal, you're correct as well that you're always going to have sometimes breakdowns in discipline. You'll have, you know, in the case of Abu Ghraib, you had noncommissioned officers that, quite frankly, weren't doing their jobs, commissioned officers that weren't doing their jobs. The worrying thing is that there's no accountability, is that there was very little accountability at the beginning of the war, not just in terms of the atrocities but in terms of the fact we were actually losing the war.
And you very rarely saw officers relieved. You very rarely saw any type of accountability at the higher ranks. I mean, Donald Rumsfeld had a job until after the 2006 congressional elections. That to me is just absolutely shocking. I think that the United States military can take a tremendous amount of pride in the way in which it has kept its discipline over a decade of fighting. I think there's a lot to be proud of. I think that, you know, incidents like the kill team in Afghanistan, of the Haditha massacre, these are aberrations.
But I think the important thing is because the United States military is held to, frankly, a higher standard than any other military, we have to be seen as being accountable. And that when atrocities take place, you have to see some sort of accountability take place in a transparent way that make sense for not just U.S. voters but, quite frankly, for the world at large.
Yeah, let me - first off, Amy, thank you so much for your service. I hope that the rest of America heard Amy, the 50-cal gunner, tell her story, because there's a prohibition on, you know, women seeing combat. That prohibition is nonsense and went out the window the moment that Jessica Lynch's convoy was attacked in Iraq. In, you know, this type of counter-insurgency campaign - in a counter-insurgency especially, but just in modern warfare in general, women have seen combat and fought valiantly and, you know, courageously and competently in both Iraq and Afghanistan. So that's the first thing that jumps out there.
The second thing is just, you know, Amy describes going to combat as part of a small unit, the togetherness, the, you know, prayer circles, the - just the cohesiveness while you're there, going through that intense experience as a unit. This is something that, actually, the U.S. military has learned is a lot better than sending people like we did in Vietnam as Individual Augmentees units. That is a recipe for PTSD, doing that, sending people, actually, you know, as part of cohesive units where they experience combat together, deploy together and then deploy back together, that's a much better recipe for success.

Great to be back.
Back when we were winning, right.
No, not at all. I mean, I served two early deployments in Afghanistan as a young infantry officer. I went back as a civilian advisor in 2009 and 2010, and I think things had really changed over those few years. So by the time - you know, we got to 2009, and I think that the American patience with the war had been ground down. The casualties from Iraq, the costs of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan had really begun to weigh on the American people, and it dawned on U.S. and allied commanders that we didn't have all the time in the world and that we had to get serious about our exit strategy.
What's the exit strategy? Building up key institutions within the Afghan state to allow us to leave. Those key institutions were primarily the Afghan national army and the Afghan national police. But that's something that we really only got serious about in 2009, when we stood up a three-star command in Afghanistan to take charge of that mission.
Yeah, I mean, first off, with respect to U.S. Army paperwork, that Afghan general's not the first person to slam down his clipboard and storm out of the room in anger. I think I did that as a company executive officer one or two times. But yeah, there is a lot of work to do.
I mean, to be quite frank, there are regions of Afghanistan, the west, the north, that don't need any more coalition troops. You can start transitioning right now. However, there's still a lot of hard fighting to be done, especially in the east. And I think that successive U.S. or NATO commanders have expected that they were going to have the manpower to actually surge in the east, as well, and really conduct intensive counterinsurgency operations.
The Obama administration has other ideas, and they want a quicker transition, and so there's a realization that we're going to transition out of Afghanistan long before this war is going to be over. And if we do that, then we're going to have to think through ways to fight by, with and through our Afghan allies and to continue to support them as they really carry the fight to the Taliban, and especially the Haqqani Network in eastern Afghanistan.
Yeah. I mean, there's a lot to unpack with that caller's question and comments - I mean, first off, the issue of centralization and decentralization. Afghanistan has a centralized government enshrined in the constitution. That's not traditionally the way that Afghanistan's been governed. I think what we, the United States and the rest of our Western coalition want is not necessarily a strong, centralized state, but a state at peace with itself.
That was Afghanistan for the vast majority of the 20th century, when Afghanistan was the exception in Asia and wasn't - didn't get caught up in, you know, global conflicts or violent insurgencies, really, until the Soviet invasion and the Marxist coup that preceded it.
Yeah. That's a great comment. I wish that only the bad guys were making money off of poppy. Unfortunately, you know, a lot of our key allies in Afghanistan and many local powerbrokers also make money off the poppy trade. It's, in many ways, tangled up within the binary conflict between the government and the insurgency, but it's by no means black and white.
I mean, first off, I've learned a lot from Marine gunnery sergeants over the years, but it's probably not the ones you want running your schools. In terms of infrastructure, just a point of interest here, you know, when the Afghans and the Americans talk about transition, they're really talking about two different things. When the Americans are talking about transition - the Americans and our Western allies - we're talking about transfer of lead security responsibility.
We're talking about, OK, we're going to turn this over to the Afghan national army. We're going to turn this over to the Afghan national police. When you hear the Afghans talk about transition, many times what they're talking about is, OK, what are you going to leave us with? How are we going to raise taxes? How are we going to control our borders? What infrastructure do we have to not only raise taxes, but then to disperse income to, you know, to build, you know, everything from schools to roads to sewage treatment plants. That's a - so that's been a disconnect in the dialogue between America and the Western donor nations and the Afghans themselves.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah. Let me - this is actually quite interesting. You know, we see the Taliban as a unitary actor. We see the Taliban as kind of this monolith. So we point out to the fact, hey, you know, look. The United Nations says that 19 percent of civilian deaths are caused by U.S. and allied forces. Eighty-one percent of civilian deaths are caused by the Taliban. What gives? Why are you angry with us? The Afghans don't see it the way. The Afghans see the insurgency like it is, which is bifurcated, which is fractured.
They see the Haqqani Network. They see the Taliban. They see Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's group. And so, you know, they look at - you know, when you break it down that way, when maybe 20 percent are done by the Quetta Shura Taliban, 90 percent of causalities are by the Haqqani Network, 20 percent are by NATO-ISAF. Then suddenly, we looked like just one of many armed groups in Afghanistan fighting out and killing civilians. And that's the way that a lot of Afghans see. So there's a disconnect there, because the Afghans are looking at the insurgency differently than the way that we often do.
Sure thing.
