Thanks for having us.
I don't think it's that significant. In fact, I think it probably got more attention than it warranted. I think it's interesting as a symptom of what has become a very accelerated process, a primary process that seems like it's going to happen next week, not in 10 months. And it's a symptom of the fact that you have a lot of candidates who are trying to differentiate themselves from each other, both in terms of personal style, but also in terms of fundraising and their level of support from different folks.
So I don't think the actual incident itself is that important, but it's interesting what it says about how this process is going to work this year.
Well, I think - and we talked about this last time we were here - right now what matters almost more than anything is fundraising, and both Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama and obviously others in this race are fighting very hard for the major donors in the party. And so it is not surprising at all that there would be people in both camps upset about what happened, and certainly in the Clinton camp upset, because he represents a major donor.
I think the larger issue is that primaries are very difficult, not just presidential, all primaries. Because what candidates have to do is figure out how do I differentiate myself from the other candidates, when there aren't a lot of ideological differences? General elections are much easier. There's real differences on policy and a whole range of issues, but in primaries, there tend to be, you know, many fewer differences among the candidates.
So they're sizing each other up and trying to figure out how in terms of style, in terms of the issues I talk about, how I present myself. How am I going to differentiate myself? That's what they're trying to do now. It's a little early. That's why probably this was sort of surprising.
It's a little early for them to start thinking about how am I going to go after the other candidates. We've got 10 months. You know, Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama are well known, but the other candidates need to do a lot of work to introduce themselves to voters. They want people to know who they are and what they care about, what their values are before they hear them attacking other candidates.
So it's a little early to be trying to figure out how you're going to attack other folks, but it's not too early to figure out how am I going to differentiate myself? How am I going to stand out?
Well, I think we have to look at the primary electorate, and it's not the case that she has high negatives in the primary electorate. Democrats like her, and they like the other candidates.
Again, this goes to whole point of how is she going to stand out? How is Barack Obama? How is Chris Dodd? How is Bill Richardson? How are they going to present themselves? How are they going to stand out? She has - she's well known, and she's well liked among Democratic primary voters.
And the same differentiation process is happening on the Republican side, too. It was not reported on, but there was a little spat between McCain and Romney about abortion and who's more pure on abortion. So you have the same kinds of internal fighting going in the Republican primary candidates, as well as the Democratic candidates.
Well, I think that one of the things that is exciting and interesting about the Democratic primary field this year is it's very strong. If you go beyond Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, who are the two best knowns that have wanted to, you've got John Edwards, Chris Dodd, Bill Richardson, Joe Biden - you have a bunch of very serious, very plausible people with very serious experience.
And 10 months is a long time from now. So I think that we need to - I think that part of the consequence of this accelerated process and the way the media has focused its attention on this race, you would think there were only two people in this race. But 10 months is a very long time. All of these campaigns are going to be interesting themselves in these early primary states, and I think that people are going to get a chance to know the other candidates. And it's going to be a different race in five, six months, and certainly by January.
Well, that's right. I think that you're going to see different kinds of advertising from the different candidates. You know, the bio ad - the typical bio ad that someone like Mitt Romney is running right now is not necessarily appropriate for Hillary Clinton. But I think the challenge will be how do they differentiate themselves from each other when - on the issues. And ideologically they, look pretty close to each other, and I think that they will do that through a discussion of what their values are, where they come from, how they've come to be the person they are. And so even though they…
Their story. So even though people know Hillary Clinton's biography, she's going to want to reintroduce herself and tell her story, just like she did in New York when she ran for Senate.
True, I think that the way people are going to use the Internet not just for fundraising as we've seen in the past, but more for direct communication is probably going to be much more intense this year, though I would say that the people who go and watch the vlogs are a self-selected audience who are people who are activists or supporters. It tends not to be a good way to reach your typical undecided or swing voter.
But Ed's exactly right. Primary voters are more sophisticated than voters who vote in just general elections. They're highly engaged, especially in these early primary states like Iowa and New Hampshire. Advertising tends to be much less effective in those states. They're doing retail politics. They're meeting people.
What's going to be interesting is in these new primary states, with potentially four or five, you know, on February 5th, where people aren't used to having these early primaries. They're not used to the retail politics, and a lot of different candidates have to introduce themselves. I actually think you will see more advertising in these primaries than you've seen in the past.
Well, I think that, actually, he's in the same boat as the other - as Chris Dodd and Bill Richardson. I don't see him having many different - I don't think…
Not, you know…
…as a Connecticut native, not that much bigger than Delaware. So I think the problem is the oxygen is being sucked out for everybody but Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama. I don't think the issue is so much what state he's from.
Well, I think you have to be careful not to confuse the way the media is covering this presidential election and the Democratic Party. If you look at polls in individual states like Iowa, someone like John Edwards is - in a number of different surveys - is winning in Iowa. I think you're going to see what happens with the actual Democratic primary voters in the actual states where there are contests. It's going to look different than what happens in the national media. The national media and the party are not the same thing.
Ed has been nothing but respectful in all of this, and is very kind about all the candidates that I've said, so I am sure it's not meant as a subtle dig from Ed.
Well, and John Kerry was not the frontrunner entering into Iowa. What I think is interesting about the Republican side of this is you had John McCain, who was considered the frontrunner and sort of the guy to beat now -and probably his position on Iraq, but probably other things as well, including that the fact that many conservatives distrust him at least on kind of, quote-unquote, "family values issues," that the national polls are all somewhat over the place.
And so, some of them Giuliani first. Some of them have McCain. Some of them have Romney, competitive or not competitive. In my view, there's not a clear frontrunner on the Republican side right now.
Well, I don't know that it's appropriate for me to comment on whether or not the fact that she's related to Bill Clinton means she should or shouldn't run. The one thing I would say is that often when you have these dynastic political families and the people who get involved, it's not always clear that everybody is qualified beyond their last name.
I think it's pretty clear that Hillary Clinton has significant qualifications, certainly equal to other people in the field. Not only is she, you know, had one term in the Senate, but she had significant policy experience both when she was the first lady, but also outside of that.
And so I think that she has the qualifications and the standing to run. If it's a liability that she is a Clinton, that's a different question. But I don't think that her last name should preclude her from running.
I'm going to take him at his word and assume that he's not running. And I think part of what makes him so effective and well regarded at the moment is that he is committed to a particular issue, climate change, and has been working hard on it and has been effective and, you know, certainly, this documentary getting an Oscar just being one indication of the work he's done.
I don't know that he would be as effective or have the same kind of regard if he got involved in the present presidential candidate. It's a very different kind of way to present yourself. You have to get involved in the kinds of spats we saw between Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama. And part of what makes him powerful is that he's deeply committed, and it's genuine and authentic on an issue and he's working hard on it. And that's what makes him, you know, powerful right now.
Well, we saw an increase in turnout among voters 18 to 30 in both 2004 - which was the highest since 1992 - and also in 2006, which was significantly higher than 2002. And what we also saw was that this age group is trending Democratic. So 55 percent voted for Kerry, 60 percent voted for Democratic candidates. So I'm not surprised that Tabby said most of them are leaning Democratic.
I think part of what is going to excite younger voters is the diversity of the Democratic field. Ed keeps talking about us having the weaker candidates at the top. I don't necessarily believe that, but what I think is interesting about our field is that it reflects the diversity that is this age group. Gen Y is the most diverse age group in this country because of immigration and other issues, and I think it's going to be quite exciting to these younger voters, who are already leaning Democratic.
Well, I mean, Ed's pointed out a couple times, this is very early for voters to be focusing on this. It's early for us to be focusing on this. I think it's a little - you know, I think that it's unrealistic to think that people are organizing 20 months out for the election.
Thank you.

Absolutely. I think  I agree with Vin that it would have been a disaster if we had not been able to pass something, and I think at one point people were saying just pass something. It doesn't matter what it is. Just pass something. Because I think that  and of course, it does matter, but I think that the perception that he didn't have the political capital or the leadership didn't have political capital would have been devastating to a narrative that I think Democrats need to advance in the 2010 elections.
I don't think so. First of all, I think it's a net positive for Democrats to have passed it. First of all, it helps advance a narrative that starts with, you know, raising the minimum wage, covering all kids under, you know, health insurance, and then here and perhaps even financial services reform, so you can actually go into 2010 saying you've done something.
Second of all, I think that people are going to see that the sky doesn't fall, that probably their lives don't change all. Since many of these things kick in in four years. So all the dire predictions about tax increases and death panels don't happen.
And finally, you know, the most important issue is going to be the economy. And so I welcome Republicans fighting on the ground of the health care bill when what people are really going to be incredibly concerned about in November is whether or not they have a job.
Absolutely. And I think that the reason we saw cooperation on the jobs bill is that I think that Republicans understand that there's a real danger to being the, quote-unquote, "party of no," particularly when people are hurting the way they're hurting.
And you know, you have someone like Bunning holding up extending unemployment benefits. There's a perception that Republicans don't actually care about people, what people are going through.
I want to follow up on something that Vin said. I completely agree that as part of a larger attack on deficits and spending and expansion of government, that's where health care could be most effective for Republicans, and it is a vulnerability for Democrats, but I would argue mostly because we have not been able to demonstrate how it's affected people's lives in a tangible way when it comes to how they're doing, you know, financially.
And I don't know if we will be able to do that, but it's not because of spending for spending's sake. It's because it's perceived to have helped Wall Street, not regular people, and that's sort of the big challenge for us.
But I argue this is generically about the economic environment we're in. It's certainly not about anything Republicans have done. There is no evidence from any poll that there's an improvement in the favorability ratings for Republicans in general, Republicans in Congress. If you look at partisanship...
...there's been in an increase in the percentage of people who call themselves independent but not Republican. So I think this is more of a generic reflection of the challenges that Democrats face.
Right.
Well, I'll make two points. First, whenever you ask the question of whether or not you favor or oppose the plan, for a long time we've seen the majority oppose. But let's be clear that there was still a majority of people saying we needed major - or basic(ph) changes to the health care issue or start fresh - you know, scrap it and start over. So there's - that sentiment has been a majority sentiment despite the fact this package in itself has been unpopular.
Now, you know, one poll, USA Today, had 49 percent, you know, saying that they favor this package. And we'll see, you know, one night, one poll. You know, we have to see where it goes. But, you know, it suggests that post passage there is the potential to build support for it over time in a way that could be very helpful for Democrats.
Absolutely.
Right. I mean, Nancy Pelosi is very smart, and she knows that she's got a lot of freshmen and sophomores running for reelection in Republican districts. And they are looking for every opportunity, Ken, to distance themselves from the leadership, call themselves independent. You will see their ads in November, will say that they're independent and they voted against the leadership X number of times. And so I think this is exactly right. She's smart enough to know that she needs to get people from these tough districts out on some big policy issues.
But, you know, what's interesting is that they also understand that we have to win some of these things in order to actually have something to run on in November. And so, obviously, people like him are prepared to vote for it if needed.
Exactly.
But keep in mind that, you know, for people like Russ Feingold - and he look at fund raising in terms of the parties and not the individual candidate, the DSCC will be in there helping Russ Feingold. So even if he himself doesn't raise a lot  spend a lot, that's not a seat that the DSCC wants to lose.

Nice to be here.
Absolutely. But I think that, as Ken said, the economy is such an overwhelming issue and has been for such a, you know, really since September of 2008, if not, you know, earlier, I think it's hard for any other issue to get any oxygen.
But I'd also say that, you know, in terms of the front pages, Iraq was much of kind of front-page story a few years ago, and really in the last couple years, it's really been on the back pages. If anything, Afghanistan is the much bigger story than Iraq, and it's kind of fallen out of people's consciousness.
Well, let's just say it was more fun to do these shows in 2008 and 2006 than it is this year.
Obviously, those are sobering numbers. It's a challenging election for Democrats. A couple things I would say: First, the real ballot tends to be tighter than the generic ballot because real candidates have - some of them at least - have real relationships with their constituents.
Real opponents, some of whom are sort of unacceptable and unelectable. Some of these incumbents have a lot of money. There's actually been very robust fundraising on the Democratic side.
So while, you know, I would  it would not be plausible for me to say that these  we should dismiss, you know, these numbers, I do think the real number is probably a little tighter than this, and certainly it is in the polling that we're seeing at the district-by-district level.
But this is a case where, I mean, first of all, if we'd had one of the other ones, he'd probably be down. So it's still, for most Democrats, this is actually a decent result, right? Because we think that the alternative would have been worse.
But this is a case where the fact that he had a lot of money, is running a highly professional and sophisticated campaign, is going to have a serious ground game, all is going to make a huge difference.
You have labor, you know, which is very big, especially in Las Vegas. So, you know, obviously it's challenging, and it's disconcerting, but I like his odds.
No.
Well, I think it depends on the state and the political culture of the state. So I could imagine in a place like Kentucky, you know, Rand Paul, you know, possibly winning, even though he is not just right wing but has said some pretty crazy stuff.
But I think in other places, I think it's much more challenging. And so I think for example in a place like Arizona 8, which is, in full disclosure, I work in that race, but the Republican who won that primary is sort of, is a Tea Party candidate. And he is pretty out of step with the district, including the fact that it's a majority pro-choice district, for example, and he opposes rape- and incest-, I mean abortion in cases of rape and incest and the life of the mother.
So, you know, I think that it depends on where you are, but in some cases, they will be too far to the right.
No, I'm polling.
Right. But let me go back to the issue of using this word. It is code word. It's sort of far-right code word. I think it has much more resonance among primary voters and activists.
I think when people start talking about the Constitution in this manner, which is, you know, not really about the Constitution, in my view, I don't think your average voter really sort of understands what it is they're talking about exactly because, again, it's sort of code.
On the issue of Social Security, I mean, this is an area where I think there is a lot of potential around defining, you know, the Republican challengers.
And you can - even if you have a Republican challenger who himself or herself hasn't said I want to privatize Social Security, if they are supporters of, you know, Paul Ryan's plan, or if they are getting money from John Boehner's PAC, if any way they're associated with the leadership of  the Republican leadership of the House, then they in essence support privatization of Social Security and Medicare.
And it is a very, very strong attack, especially in the midterm when you a disproportionately older electorate.
I mean, all the scuttlebutt is that he's going to, you know, caucus with the Democrats, but who really knows. Maybe he'll, you know, sort of do a Joe Lieberman and have his vote be that kind crucial vote that everyone's sort of trying to get.
I'm not going to make any predictions either way.
Right. Well, if you read FiveThirtyEight.com, if you read Nate Silver's analysis, he suggests that probably it's about a seven seat loss in the Senate, which is not enough to take over the...
I'm just telling you what he says.
Well, I mean, one - you know, I sort of agree. I think if someone has an R, you know, next to their name, you know, most Republicans are going to vote Republican. We know that that's true from all kinds of academic studies as well. But there are some Tea Party candidates who are not running professional campaigns, who are not good at fundraising, who are going to be potentially outmaneuvered by their Democratic opponents. And so there are some people who are not ready for primetime running in these general elections where you don't have the benefit of the grassroots playing such a large role as you see in a primary election, for example.
Sure.
Well, I think it's an excellent question. I think that there have been a couple of issues, some of which are of the Democrats own making and some of which are not. I mean, I think that there was desire for change that swept, you know, Obama into office and also, you know, produced, you know, the majorities in the House and Senate. But the kinds of change that people want is not easy to achieve, and so I think there was bound to be - started to be some dissatisfaction particularly as it looks like we might even go into a double-dip recession. And I think that's beyond the control of Democrats.
But I think that it's hard to, A, talk about things that didn't happen so, you know, the whole perception of the stimulus didn't work. It's very hard to make the case that, we know the jobs that weren't lost, the state workers who weren't laid off, the teachers who weren't laid off, those are very hard arguments to make for people. And so I think that's part of the problem.
And then I also think there's understandably a desire for the administration and others to go out and talk about everything that we've accomplished. And, actually, if you'd look legislatively, there have been a huge number of accomplishments. In fact, most of his promises have been met.
But for people who are feeling a lot of pain right now, that sort of feels out of touch. They don't feel like lots of great things have happened. So I think there's a lot of reasons why we see this.
Thank you.

Yes, real trouble, but I do think if the race is tied, there are some potential things working in his favor, for example the Get Out the Vote operation, especially coming out of Las Vegas, organized by labor there. That could be worth a point.
I don't know what kind of operation there is on the sort of Tea Party Republican side. So yes, very tough for him, but certainly possible for him to pull it out.
I also would note that I think a lot of this is not about these individual candidates. And I'm thinking about Sharron Angle. There are a bunch of different races, whether it's Rand Paul, Paul LePage, there's a bunch of, you know, less-than-ideal Republican candidates, and people are really running against Democrats, running against Washington. And so it almost doesn't matter how nuts some of these Republican candidates are.
I think that we should put a fork in California, at least in the Senate and governor's races. I think both of those, Boxer will, you know, retain her seat, and Brown will become governor again.
It's just a sign of the wave that someone like Hickenlooper, who is so incredibly popular, no problem raising money, entire establishment, you know, for him could be, you know, having so much trouble.
Yes, there aren't a lot of Democrats running positive campaigns these days.
I think it's too close to call. I mean, and what's really remarkable is how stable it's been. I mean, it seems like about two months now, it has been absolutely stable, has barely moved. And I think it's going to come down to the ground game.
You know, I think that Toomey probably wins, and I think you have the problem, as well, that there's really a very lopsided governor's race, so that...
Right, with the Republican clearly ahead. So your top of your ticket in Pennsylvania is just sort of dragging down, you know, the rest of the ticket.
I think he can pull it out. He's one of those unique, uniquely popular and well-liked, you know, sort of governors that I think has his own sort of base and profile that helps him survive a year like this.
But one thing about Ohio is it - in terms of the ground game and the field operations and the grassroots in Ohio, that is so well-organized on the Democratic side dating back really to 2004. The ability of labor and others to mobilize Democratic voters in Ohio is quite high, much more so than in other places. It has a very strong party.
No, of course, that's true. What I'm saying is that in some of these tighter races, it may be that the work on the ground that happens around Election Day - I mean, Ohio does have early vote, but it's also a place that culturally doesn't vote as early as other states. And so what I'm saying is in a really close race for governor, the ground game may be able to save him.
Yes, we - well, first of all, we tend to use voter file, in other words voter lists, instead of, say, random digit dials, so we do a much better job than a lot of the public polls do in terms of actually reaching real voters. But, moreover, we have incorporated a cell phone sample into our polls at both the national, state and even C.D. level in some places. So I think that some of the issues that have been raised in the past around accuracy, I think, are probably overblown.
And also primary polling is really different than polling in the general election. It's much harder, especially in these kinds of years where you have activists coming out to vote who may not have voted in the past. So figuring out what a Republican primary electorate looks like is actually pretty difficult. Figuring out what the electorate looks like for the general is much easier.
I hope so.
But I think you have to be a little bit careful because, Ken, you keep talking about we thought these were reliably blue states and now they're shifting. I think when you're in wave elections and when you're in midterms where it's not just - it's about the wave, but there's also dynamics in these integral states, what these states do presidentially can be very different than what happens in the midterms, so...
...you know, I don't imagine that Illinois ends up, you know, voting for a Republican for president, for example. And I also think just going back to Obama's seat, actually, I think you would be careful. Giannoulias and Kirk is a very unique situation.
And it was very hard for whatever reason to find a really strong Democratic candidate to run for that seat. So, you know, I think that it's not a matchup that necessarily is indicative of anything about the president.
Yes, I think that Rand Paul will be the next senator from Kentucky. He made some missteps at the very beginning, but he really reined himself in a way that Angle and O'Connell didn't and got himself under control.
And then I think that there was a misstep at the end of the Conway campaign with the Aqua Buddha ad that, I think, clearly backfired. So I think, you know, Kentucky is a very conservative state, so I think everyone was a little bit too excited when Rand Paul won that primary.
Democrats keep the House.
Thank you.

Thank you.
Absolutely. I just said to Alex before this started, this is the first time in about a year-and-a-half or two years that I've actually been excited about talking on one of these kinds of - one of these events.
Yes, very good. And I think that there's a couple things to feel good about. One is I think the invigoration of labor around not just Ohio, but they were very involved in Maine and in special elections in Iowa, for example, and other places. So it wasn't just Ohio.
And in Michigan, the recall there. This is - you know, the labor movement did a lot to elect Barack Obama in 2008, and they've been pretty marginalized and certainly didn't play a huge role in 2010. And I think this really injects new life into the labor movement and shows that they can play a role outside of the Democratic Party, outside of working with a Democratic president.
The other is that I think it certainly shows that you can go too far. We saw this with Newt Gingrich in 1995. You know, once you sort of win all the marbles, it's very easy to go too far. And, you know, certainly at the state level in these different states, you've seen - you know, if you start in Wisconsin, there was a recall of two Republican senators there, even though they didn't take back the Senate.
You're seeing a kind of - a trend around pushback against a kind of extreme, you know, anti-worker, pro-corporate agenda at the state level. I don't know if that's going to translate to the national level in the presidential race. Obama did not associate himself with these campaigns. He didn't speak out on them.
No, no. But one would have thought, given the energy on the ground around these campaigns and the fact that the victories were so decisive, it suggests that independents broke the Democratic way, whatever the actual issue was, which has also not been true for the last two years.
So the fact that there was such a separation between the Democratic Party and the president and what happened, which was very positive in these states, I don't know what that portends for 2012, quite honestly.
I agree with that. I think you should be very careful about trying to make predictions based on what happens in an off-year. And I would note that Democrats picked up two seats in the Assembly in New Jersey. So there were opposite results in Virginia and New Jersey, you know, relative to what happened in 2009.
But one thing, as a Democrat, that is very encouraging about it is that for a while, we've had a very significant intensity gap, whether it's interest in the election or interest in voting. Republicans have had a much more significant advantage over the Democrats.
The fact that you see the kind of enthusiasm and turnout in these different places on somewhat disparate issues, but all very Democratic-leaning, I think is helpful in thinking about how you get people more invested in what's going to happen. I think we don't win in 2012 if Democrats are as dispirited as they have been over the last two years.
But the independent mandate's always been an unpopular part of the plan, if you poll it separately. So it doesn't surprise me at all. I don't know that it's an indicator of something bigger.
Well, I wanted to mention - because the caller was from Iowa - that there was a special in Iowa, which actually was effectively about control of the Senate, which is actually effectively about gay marriage, because the only way to overturn same-sex marriage in Iowa is to have two consecutive legislative sessions that pass a constitutional amendment.
So it was actually a very - you know, it's one state Senate race in the state, but it's a very big deal. I would also note that it is a battleground state, and there were also good results in Michigan, which is a battleground state. So I wouldn't say that none of these, you know, elections outside of Ohio don't have implications for 2012.
For Romney?
Romney should make no mistakes. He will not go down because he won't answer questions. There are plenty of people who refuse to debate in other kinds of races. It never seems to hurt them. It is absolutely smart for him to lay low, raise money, deal with his organization on the ground, win a couple of those early, you know, primaries and then be the inevitable candidate because it's hard to imagine Cain lasting much longer.
And Perry's vulnerabilities has been about sort of not seeming prepared, not seeming coherent. They haven't and, you know, some potential issues around immigration with the base, but generally, certainly it's not a scandal, and generally, there aren't – it's nothing he can't fix.
Yes. There's no question that this re-elect looks difficult. It would be bizarre if it wasn't. If you look at the unemployment rate and a variety of other indicators, like the right track, wrong track numbers. But I tend to look - to start from the 2004 map where Kerry only needed to win, say, Ohio or Florida or New Mexico in order to have won that election. I actually think Obama starts out better positioned because I think he wins, you know, New Mexico pretty easily. So I think there's not a terrible electoral-vote scenario for Obama even if he loses Ohio, even if he loses Virginia, even if he loses Florida.
Exactly.
Florida will be very, very important. It's sort of unfortunate, given our history there. But Rick Scott is a very unpopular governor, and there have been some early elections in Florida, some municipal elections that suggest some pushback and reaction to Rick Scott as governor. So I have a feeling that the work of this governor has made that state look a little better for Obama than it might have been otherwise.
I wouldn't say there's no way, but it's definitely challenging. A number of the retirements on the Democratic side have been in red states, and it's pretty clear that there's no way that Democrats can hold those seats. So I wouldn't say that it's an absolute certainty Republicans are going to take it over, but it's certainly challenging. I think a lot of it also depends on what happens with the presidential race. There's a bunch of states where, you know, if Obama, you know, is doing well and energizing the base, we can win, you know, places like Montana, for example, you know, by a hair breadth and keep those seats. If he's not doing well, it will be much harder for some of those closer races for Democrats to keep those seats.
Massachusetts will be a good sort of canary in the coalmine. You know, Scott Brown is still pretty popular, but his support is a mile wide and inch deep. And if you do any kind of research on him, which I have done...
...for some of my clients, and you can see that he's got a lot of vulnerabilities. And Elizabeth Warren has a lot of strengths. So I actually think it's going to be a great race. It was one where I think a lot of Democrats where pretty dispirited by the field of people who were planning on running against Brown and now much more excited about it. And she's - part of what makes her strong is she is going to have no problem raising money, which is he's got, you know, 10 million in the bank.
I think Democrats do have a shot. There are a few things working in their favor. One, there are a bunch of seats that Obama - a bunch of districts that Obama won that now have Republicans in them, so there's a lot of purple seats in states like Pennsylvania, a lot of those are in states where these Republican governors are increasingly unpopular. The second piece is that redistricting actually ends up in certain states favoring Democrats more than we would thought.
I certainly think Texas is going to be a place where Democrats actually net seats; potentially, Arizona, although that's now very much up in the air. But certainly, the map that the independent commission had drawn had three competitive Democratic seats in addition to the two seats that were solid Democratic seats. So, you know, if you look at sort of both where Obama won and you look at redistricting, there really - now, it's going to be close if it actually happens. Twenty-five seats is a big lift, but it certainly not outside of the realm of possibility.
The one other thing I would add is that Boehner and the Republicans in Congress have a terrible image, and they are - and it plummeted, and they are - it's very hard to see sort of what they run on around their sort of leadership in the House. They are very unpopular. They are less popular than the Democrats in Congress.
Well - but the research that we have done suggests that the electorate is ripe for a third party candidate, not to win, but to get, you know, a substantial chunk of the vote. You have a very similar kind of angry, white blue collar sector of the electorate that is mad at Democrats who run government, spending the economy, but is also mad at Republicans around kind of corporate special interests and serving the interests of the wealthy. And that is the group that voted for Ross Perot. It is getting - I guess, it's a little, but not really. It's a year. We don't have a Republican candidate yet. I don't really - you know.
Hey, I thought, we all said we couldn't predict what was going to happen based on the results yesterday.
Thank you.

Thank you, I'm just wondering why I didn't get flown out to Aspen.
Yes, I would agree, and I think it's also interesting to note that things have been incredible stable for months and months and months, certainly since the, you know, the end of the Republican primary, so to speak, after Santorum dropped out but even prior to that.
The numbers on the presidential race, you know, the horse race and the ratings for the candidates, has really just not moved much at all.
Well, not only are there ads for the presidential candidates coming from the campaigns themselves but also the independent expenditure groups. There are ads, you know, in Massachusetts for that Senate race. So it's not just at the level of president. You get to the level of Senate and gubernatorial and even, you know, some congressional, you're already seeing advertising. So people are going to be pretty fed up, I think, by November.
Well, it's true some indicators have stalled, not all of them. So it's a bit of a mixed bag. But no doubt the economic news has been not as good lately as it had been, you know, a few months ago. I think what matters is less the current economic performance and more where do people think the economy is going.
It's still the case that a near majority or a close majority think the economy's getting better. There's been a real significant decline in the percentage of people saying the economy's getting worse, and also people have said their personal financial standing has gotten better.
That is really critical. You know, you can still have, you know, 8.2, 8.3 unemployment if people think things are getting better, and Obama can still win under those circumstances. If you start seeing, though, particularly because the news about the macroeconomy has a really important impact on public opinion, if there's a kind of unrelentingly negative coverage of the economy, that's going to depress people's sense of whether or not the economy is getting better or not, and that could really hurt Obama.
But Gary Johnson is going to be on the ballot.
So there is going to be a third-party candidate I think in every state.
I do think, though, that there are diminishing returns, I mean especially in a presidential election where the president himself is so well-defined. There's only so much you can do to change perceptions of Barack Obama, whether that's positive, you know, or negative. And we've seen a recent example. In Wisconsin, for example, the - you know, Governor Walker outspent the recall campaign 10 to one, but there was - the numbers in the recall race were very stable throughout.
There might have been a point or two, you know, here or there. But considering how much the recall side was outspent, you'd think it would have had this huge impact. It didn't. In part because the governor there is so well-defined. There just isn't much new information about him. So I actually, you know, speaking from the perspective of a Democratic, you know, campaign consultant, I worry more about the spending at the Senate and congressional level than I do at the presidential level.
I think he can, though I think it's at the margins. I mean certainly with the announcement on marriage equality and then with the DREAM Act, he solidifies his fundraising base in the LGBT community. He, I think, increases the intensity or enthusiasm among the Latino vote, though it was already in terms of margin looking pretty close, the way it looked in 2008. But there's a turnout issue with Latino voters that's not as true with other voters. But I still think this is at the margins.
This is, you know, if you think about it in terms of the vote, it's, you know, maybe one or two percentage points. Now, given what we see in the polls, this is going to be a very close election. And so that may be, you know, what it takes to win. But I think that there are also things that are completely out of their control that could have an independent impact that I think the decision tomorrow, nobody has any idea what - first of all, what it's going to be, but what the impact of it is going to be politically on this presidential race. So there's only limited ways, I think, that the president can control the overall environment he's in.
But the fact that it's not an issue in of itself is interesting, because if you looked at the 2008 race and the 2:00 a.m. phone call ad that the Clinton campaign ran against Obama, you can't run that ad against him now. And so it's sort of taken off the table a potential line of attack against him, that's he's sort of not strong enough to, you know, on foreign policy he's not tough enough, he will make tough decisions.
Thank you.

Thanks for having me.
Yes, we did.
We learned a lot about the changing demographics of the country, though frankly I'm mystified that the Republican pollsters weren't aware of the changing demographics of the country, but something that will happen by natural population growth, the country will be more diverse. The country will be younger because Generation Y is a bigger generation than even the baby boom.
So that was, I think, you know, really the biggest story of the election, but - in terms of what we learned.
But what to me, was really interesting about it, is to watch what the Republicans - sort of their reaction to it. An immigration forum, while you're right, Ken, is not new. The fact that there are actually, you know, Sean Hannity and others are talking about immigration reform, suggest that it's completely politically expedient, of course, because of what happened. The fact that they are talking about some kind of immigration reform, I think, means that we actually make a real progress on it.
And so while the president, I think, was appropriately modest about what kind of mandate he might have, I think there are various areas like that in direct reaction to what happened in this election that are going to affect the president's ability to get some things done, which he was not able to do in, certainly, the last two years of his term because of the Republican Congress.
Absolutely. There were, I think, a couple things that we learned about it. One, it really doesn't matter what your economic vision is, and I think that while Romney had a great first debate, he couldn't really seal the deal because I think he always struggled to articulate what that economic message was beyond lower taxes and deficit reduction. And I think in the exit polls, in the post-election research that we did, you could see that pretty clearly.
The number one reason that people said they voted to re-elect Obama wasn't economic reason, but part of it was that they'd actually seen some progress since he'd been president. And that was an argument he was making, you know, on the campaign trail. But also, you can see it in consumer confidence. You can see it in people's sense of what's going on the economy. The president was always very careful, and even in this press conference, to talk about, you know, the job not being done and the middle class struggles. But I just don't think that Romney ever conveyed what he was going to do to improve people's lives.
And the second is, and I know I'm a broken record player on this, but I think the women's issues were really important. I think, for suburban and educated voters, who might've been disappointed in the president, they found the Republicans unacceptable because of the various elements of their party, and it had a big impact on women. The Obama's margin with women was as big as this year as it was in 2008. So I do think there's a lot around message as well. But I do think that this election, because of the demographic story, does provide a lot of opportunities for the president that he might not have had had it been closer, obviously, if he had lost.
Some of it was self-inflicted though. I mean, when you make comment about Cadillacs...
...and NASCAR and dressage horses. I mean, some of this was self-inflicted.
Dressage. Sorry. Well, I'm a common person, so I don't know how to pronounce it.
Yeah, he's looking for work.
That's right. Some of it, I think, had to do with the candidate - the caliber of the candidates, which, I think, was actually different on both sides of the aisle. I think that, you know, McCaskill is obviously a much better candidate than an Akin. Donnelly is a better candidate than a Murdoch, so I think some of it was about quality and the campaigns that they ran. I think some of it was about a larger conversation about women's issues and what that meant about these - not so much about the people who were overly - were panicked about Roe versus Wade but more what does it say about the folks who are running and the values of the party. And then I also think some of them were caught up on the wave. I mean, when the president does well, which he did, he takes people with him. You get a vote, you know, a point or two, you know? So I think that all those - for all those reasons, we did quite well in the Senate.
They did. But what's interesting about it is that if you look at the actual popular vote, the Democrats won the congressional vote. The problem is redistricting was done so effectively that even though there were Democratic hiccups, especially in California and Arizona...
...and Illinois and New York, too, that it was not enough to overcome the impact of redistricting. I think that it's going to be hard to take back the House in the short term. I think it's going to be an iterative process leading into the next redistricting where I think, depending on who controls the state Houses, I think the demographic changes in this country already make it very difficult to continue gerrymander out Democratic districts or Democratic-leaning districts.
Right. But if you look at the Hispanic population, it's growing all over the place. And there have been, for instance, in Texas, lots of efforts to redistrict Democrats out of seats where you could have more Democratic seats. So it's not just about that.
Well, I think that's not totally relevant because what really matters was the Electoral College. And so the difference in the quality of the campaigns was really evident, for example, in places like, you know, Ohio, like Florida, where - so the overall popular doesn't reflect kind of the relative strengths of the campaign.
But to go back to the field program, I was somewhere where the RNC chair was. I overheard him talking about the field program, and he started talking about, we've got PDAs where we can collect data from the field. We have data on voter files. This is stuff that Democrats were doing as far back as 2004. You cannot create a field program overnight.
Karl Rove knew that. When they, you know, lost the popular vote in 2000, they spent two years building a program they rolled out in 2002. And then they rolled it out even bigger in 2004, and then it collapsed, and McCain had nothing. And I think the Romney folks were overconfident about how much they could build in the space of time that was available to them.
I think the Democrats do have to be a little bit careful when thinking about the Hispanic vote. First of all, Hispanic voters care a lot - about a lot more than immigration. In fact, if you ask many of them what's the most important issue to you, it's the economy. The immigration issue plays out because - particularly the way the Republicans talked about it, it was a signal that Hispanic voters - that they were intolerant, you know, of big races or whatever word you want to use. So that was the problem with, I think, the immigration issue politically.
And it also the case that while I think, right now, Hispanics voted overwhelmingly Democratic, they're not attached to the party the way African-Americans are, the party's legacy of being the champion of civil rights. And so I think that's there's going to be great pressure on the president, but also, I think, on progressives and on labor, who's, you know, labor unions are very focused on Hispanic workers to really speak to this community in a broader way and not just assume that this is for life, you know, they're going to be attached to the Democratic Party.
Well, I think where you're going to see frustration is how far he's going to go on Medicare. If you look at the Senate and House races, about half of the ads were ran on Medicare, back and forth between, you know, the parties. At the end of the day, Democrats won it not by the margin they should have, but when you ask who would do a better job on Medicare, you know, the president wins it but not by a huge margin. And I think it played less of an issue in the presidential, though, certainly, Paul Ryan is kind of the standard bearer of the economic vision for Romney, Medicare was obviously critical to that. I think we are going to see unbelievable backlash with House Democrats, with labor, other progressive donors and important people in the community if there's a big compromise on guaranteeing benefits on Medicare.
But what's ironic, by the way, is that what the Republicans ran on was attacks on Democrats for cutting Medicare because they took Obamacare and said, you know, there are $700 billion in cuts to Medicare. So it's sort of ironic but...
Thank you.
