Yes, I am.
No, I was not.
Yes, he did. My pursuit of him made me a bounty huntress.
No, I was on the phone as they were being arrested. I could hear them being arrested. We, Duane and I had searched for Andrew Luster for 166 days. We had 14 days left to the statutory time that you're allowed to get the return of bail money. So we only had 14 days left when he made the apprehension of Luster. So we had pursued him, you know, vigorously all the way until we had gotten to Mexico.
Never.
If the person is captured within the 180 days, that the bail would be returned to the person who pledged it less the cost of their apprehension.
We didn't get that.
There was five of them total. There was a cameraman and a producer, also, with them.
Several.
In Mexico.
No. No, because see, the crime that he's wanted for in Mexico-is a minor crime.
A misdemeanor for United States purposes. So, as you know, in America, you can't chase someone from Atlanta to Mississippi on a misdemeanor.
So thereby, you know, it's not the same.
No.
... he was a Top Ten Most Wanted.
FBI, Ventura County had $10,000...
We did try to collect the e rewards at the time, but....
... the Ventura County court called him a vigilante and said, you know, you did this wrong, we're not going to pay you. And so everybody just followed suit. But, you know, there were five different entities that had rewards out for Mr. Luster.
We got a very small -- small reward from one of the victims of Andrew Luster. And that same victim set up the Dogdefensefund.com helping with his defense.
Well, people, they were -- CBS was interested in doing a dramatic series on him. And they just couldn't find a writer who could capture him. And so we had agreed that we would probably have to do reality television for a while, so that America could really get a glimpse of what he does.
We're in our fourth season.
Major.
All the time.
We quit counting.
Ever.
Yes.
That they're productive, they've don't have to, you know, that they have learned the skills to be able to get out of jail, stay out of jail and now be productive. And that's really what they had in mind when they said put them in jail and fix them.
We found out about 6:00 a.m. the morning of the wedding.
The morning of the wedding. I remember I rolled over, happy wedding day. I had waited 16 years. And it was finally -- all the busts were finished, all of the busyness. And it had come to the moment. And this -- I walked downstairs and all the children were crying in the hallway. And I was like, what's the matter? You know, and...
I...
and you know, Larry, we're not at the church. We're actually in the streets where crime is going on, where -- you know, the term "When in Rome" -- you know, they don't necessarily respond to the normal, "Hey, stop," you know. "Let me search you, kid." That doesn't really work.
Moments before the flight.
In Honolulu.
Me, too.
Not our justice system. We're not being judged by our justice system.
Absolutely. We have a 225,000 name on an online petition already, Larry. Absolutely.
The fans are the key.
Thank you, Larry, very much.

He was convicted.
Really good for you.
We don`t know if they did or not. We don`t know who added it. I know that, when I bailed him out of jail when I was standing in the U.S. marshals` office, he handed me a copy of Dog`s wanted poster. And he goes, oh, yes, we put kidnapping on there because nobody here knew what deprivation was. And at the time, I thought, you did what? And so that stuck with me. And then, when I got back to our house, when we finally got him out of there, I said, that marshal said that he added kidnapping, because it was in parentheses. The Mexican language doesn`t have parentheses in it. So we`re trying to find out, when the paperwork came over from Mexico, did someone add the words kidnapping? Because I think that a judge who is offered up paperwork and said, "Hey, this guy kidnapped and he conspired," hey we need a warrant to...
Half a million.
Right.
They have never, ever requested someone be returned to Mexico for deprivation of liberty, ever. It is such a minor crime in their country that they don`t even charge people with it. There`s thousands of Americans that leave Mexico every day that are charged with deprivation of liberty, because, you know, there`s some things that go on in Mexico where, you know, you hold someone for five seconds, "Hey, lady, you`re not leaving yet," that`s deprivation of liberty. So there is no dual illegality, which is the second thing that it must be for there to be an extradition. Because here in America, I`m not depriving you of your liberty and I`m not falsely imprisoning you if you`re a wanted fugitive. And he was more than a wanted fugitive, Glenn, because he had been convicted in absentia, so that made him an escaped prisoner from the California penal institute.
If you see a crime being committed.
We had a right to make a citizen`s arrest.
They`re taking my children and my family, and they`re leaving 12 children that Dog has and three children that Tim has and the two children that Leland has, and they`re leaving 16 children fatherless, for, what, the government of America
Something causes that, Glenn.
Despicable.
Yes.
Coming into play.
And he originally filed his complaint under the name David Carrera. And I though, that`s great. Produce David Carrera. If I`m going to have my chance to meet my accuser, produce David Carrera.
Yes, yes, arrogant.
I think he had small ones though, that was the problem. That was the rape.
OK.
Six to eight weeks. But if you ask my opinion who it was, I think there was some terrible, terrible screw-up, either in the State Department or in Condoleezza Rice`s office. And I think that somebody legitimately did not understand the word "deprivation of liberty," and they wrote down the word "kidnapping," not understanding the ramifications of what those words would mean. And the reality is that this thing, the statute of limitations on this thing, Glenn, expired in June of 2006.
We were arrested September 14th of 2006.
Because Mexico is not getting the money for the ankle bracelet. Mexico is not getting the money that he has to pay pre-trial services. Mexico is not getting the half-a-million-dollar bail money. You know, Mexico isn`t getting those things. America is.
They`re strip searching these men every nine yards. Every time they go somewhere, they strip search them...
They did it with Duane and Tim and Leland, and every five feet that they took, they strip searched them again.
Very. I`m in fear for my husband`s life. I`m in fear for my son`s life. I don`t know what will -- you know, there`s 16 children between the three men. And I thought that, you know, when we caught Luster it was a long shot, and we spent every penny we had to catch Luster.
A little bit.
Well, on our Web site, dogthebountyhunter.com, there`s a letter that has been drafted through Congress that is a request to the Mexico president to withdraw these extradition cases. We need every single person in America to sign this, and we also need them to urge their congressmen, their representatives to also sign on. We need help. I mean, we are a family of three heroes that went to Mexico and did something that was absolutely just and right. They spent their own time, their own money. They did something great for those three women. Those three women set up a defense fund for them. Those three women are horrified that this is happening now, when my husband, and my son, and my brother went down there to do something for them. And it`s just not right that, in America, where people help each other, and there are crimes being committed every day on the streets, and good Samaritans jump in and help, and if we start prosecuting our good Samaritans and start going, oh, we`ll send them back to another country, we`re sending the wrong message.

Hi. Fine, how are you?
Andrew Luster was a very arrogant, very cocky, had a lot of money, had been raised as the great-grandson of Max Factor. He was raised around a lot of celebrities. He was, you know, lived in Mussel Shoals, which was outside of Santa Barbara. He preyed on the Santa Barbara college town, where all of the kids would go to party at night and clubs that were in the local Santa Barbara area. And he would basically drug these women with the date rape drug, GHB. Most of them had in common remembering this man giving them a glass of water. That was usually the last recollection that any of them had. And it wasn`t until one of the girls, Shauna Doe, came forward and said, "Hey, there`s something wrong with me. I do not feel right." And she took herself to the hospital, and she took herself to police. And as people who knew him started getting word that he had been under arrest, all of these women started coming to the police department saying, "Hey, I knew Andrew." And one of them in particular, the police were just like, "Oh, my God, you need to come in, because they had seen her on videotapes." So, what he`d do is, is he would date rape drug them in Santa Barbara. Then he would drive them back to his Mussel Shoals home, where he would then perform sex acts on them that are those of, you know, necrophilia. I mean, these women are like snoring, asleep, you know, clearly drugged out of their minds, and then he would then rape them. And he would sodomize them and he...
Well, he was placed on in-home detention with an ankle bracelet.
WE all know the ankle bracelet works great.
What happened then, Glenn, is they put him on this in- home detention on an ankle bracelet and he allowed him out during eight hours of the day, so he planned his escape very methodically. He left red herring clues and on the day that he was ready to take flight, he transferred $300,000 out of his Dean Wittier account. There was all these paper trails to all this money that was being transferred.
He checked in in the morning, pretrial and said, "Hey, I`m going to work on my case." He left for the day, and he didn`t come back in at 8 p.m. at night. So, of course, an alarm sounds at pretrial. They start calling. Nobody`s there, of course. They send a police officer by 11 or 12. Knocks on the door. Nobody responds. This was a Friday. So nobody followed up with this until Monday, and by Monday, he was gone.
We tracked his behavior and we talked to his friends. And mostly...
Tracked his cell phone. I would say the most helpful things were his friends, because they would play with us, you know, like, we`re not giving you nothing, but as they were giving us nothing, they gave us everything.
Very cocky.
Yes. So.
Don`t leave them hanging out.
Well, we believe that it was, you know -- the person that he hired was, we believed, was an off-duty police officer. At some point, we -- much later on, we found out that he was some kind of off-duty security guy or whomever. But that person, when we were pounding on the door, he knew that we had to get to police immediately, right? And so, I believe that he radioed or called ahead and said, you know, that they were coming.
Also, there was witnesses, you know, across the street at a gas station who witnessed the entire thing go down. They called for police. And in their statements, they`re saying, "It was very odd because there was no police anywhere." There was -- usually on this very busy street in Puerta Vallarta there`s usually a lot of tourists and a lot of police activity. There was none on this night, you know. And so, you know, the only thing he could do is take him to police, because he was too valuable.
I think it`s a room without a view.
There`s an animated piece -- we call it "Dog 2.0" -- which is basically pointing people to the direction of the Mexico petition.
To help us out with the Mexico government in the Luster case.
Three and a half years later.
There`s no knock. I wish there would have been a knock. That would have been, you know, polite. But there was no knock. They basically just burst in the doors.
Kidnapping and conspiracy.
And conspiracy.
And conspiracy was dismissed.
Yes.
No, it is, because what came over from Mexico was illegal detention.
And someone in America took it upon themselves to put their own...
Well, what we`ve done now is we`ve really beefed up our legal defense team. We`ve added more attorneys in Mexico. We`ve added more attorneys in the mainland. We`re really beefing this up. We`re fighting this tooth and nail in Mexico, because we believe that we broke no laws in Mexico. And we`re also beefing up our front in America. Because of the great exposure that we got on your show, Glenn, a lot of questions have been being asked of the Justice Department by Congress, by senators, by representatives saying, "Hey, what are we doing? Where did you get this?" And now, the Justice Department is in a little bit of a panic, and they`re asking our prosecutor to step it up. So we`ve had...
Yes. So we`ve got to beef up our defense on both sides of the border so that we have an aggressive attack going on in Mexico trying to, you know -- we need to get something that works there. We did not break their laws. And I know they feel their sovereignty is at issue. But we come from a sovereign land also. Hawaii is very, very serious about their sovereignty. And so we feel that we did everything lawfully. So we have a bigger team in Mexico to -- to make sure that the truth is found out in Mexico. And we have also added to our team in America, because it is very important that America does not extradite three American citizens for...
The paper shuffling starts about June 16.
We`re expected to go to trial on the extradition sometime around October.
If, you know, if everybody`s motions are in. You know, nothing else comes up.
Yes.
The lead role.
And we anchor -- we anchor our spirituality on that fact, that we really didn`t come this far to get let down. You know, we feel that we were put on a mission. I personally know from myself that I was shown years ago that Duane was going to catch someone very high-profile and that it was going to be a huge controversy. I was told that in my spirit, you know...
You know, I think the Lord comes to people in different ways. You know, for me, it`s just basically, you`re shown something. You`re shown something, you know. I was doing something one day for Duane`s career, and the Lord was like laughing at me. It`s going to be this. It`s going to be this big guy. It`s going to be someone famous. It`s going to be a big controversy. And you`re going to come through it, right? I was like, OK, great. And so, on that morning, when I read "millionaire may have jumped bail," I cracked him with the newspaper on the airplane and I, "Look! That`s the guy. This is it. This is the guy. This is the guy that the Lord told me about. This is him." And so then for 166 days, we ate, slept and drank that guy. We did everything...
Yes.
Right.
Underlining, yes.
Right.
There are days that we`re just like, how are we ever going to get through this? It`s hopeless, we`re going to prison, you know. And you have those days. But then one of us, depending on whichever one of us is having that day, stops and says, "Wait a minute. We need to pray right now over our family, because you`re letting the devil and his thoughts and you`re letting negative things come into play.
Right.
You promised that you were not going to get angry.
Anything.
And you`re not going to ask how much anything costs.
No.
You have to swear.
You have to swear. You just pinky promised.
Hyperion.
Comes out August 7th.
I think that there`s really endearing qualities, you know, and that a lot of people want to know what really makes the Dog tick. In other words, they want the recipe to the Dog. And so I think it`s an important book, because he basically goes through the pivot points in his life. "Here`s the road that I was on. Here`s where it forked." You know, then it got worse.
From the beatings, right.
And that`s the good quality about the book, because there is nobody in America that has gone to jail for first-degree murder who has actually come out and done anything with themselves, let alone captured 6,000 of the most dangerous fugitives, and basically changes the lives of drug addicts every single day on our island.
Duane "Dog" Chapman is being sought...
In 1976, when this actually happened, there wasn`t an accessory to a crime at that time. So in Texas, in the mid-`70s, if you were there, and you could have stopped it or done something, you got charged with first-degree murder. So all four parties in the car...
Still don`t trust him with razors.
Yes.
Yes.
You know what? That`s a terrible question, terrible.
Oh, great.
He set my bond out on the bus.
A .9 millimeter.
Whatever...
Right, moreover than that, he came out with this blonde, you know, bombshell that he is, and...
And I said, "Oh, yes, he will be mine. Let the stalking begin," you know, because I determined on that day that that was going to be mine.
Right.
Examples.
Because you`ve never done it before.
But once you`ve walked a mile in their shoes, you`ve been to jail, you`ve ran the game, the probation game. "Oh, I didn`t like the probation. I didn`t want to check in." OK, I`ve already been through all this crap, and I`m going to tell you right now, you`d be the wise man and take my advice. You can be the fool and learn from your own mistakes.
Exactly.
That`s the one we don`t talk about.
Very well-thought-out.
Yes.
And then I introduced him to Gene Simmons, and the next day we were getting married.
He`s full of crud. He meet Gene Simmons, who is -- what does he say? He`s happily unmarried.
And started to proclaim about how great it is to be not married. And then the next day, we got married.
Pretty much. He said, "I`ve been thinking about this, and this is not right."
He said, "This is not right."
Very well.
And it`s self-control. You know, you have to have self- control. You have to have patience, and you have to realize they`re smaller than you and they don`t quite get what you`re saying sometimes.
We`re very proud of our animation. It`s produced by Cup of Coffee Productions. And, of course, you donated your studio for our audience.
So we had
I`m busy, Duane.
Make sure you send them to the Web site, big daddy.
Please.
The world that we run in doesn`t understand, "Could you please come here?"
Yes, we have.
But the saving of the lives is absolutely worth it, because if...
Yes, we have.
We have.
It`s been a long time since he did felony.
Thank you so much.
Thank you so much, Glenn.

His name was Hong Nguyen (ph).
Well, as you know, Larry, we just don't believe in lethal force. We don't believe in killing for money. And, you know, the bounty hunter business is -- a defendant will flee, and it is our job to return them. So it isn't our job to go out there and kill them. It is our job to capture them. So Dog has a felony conviction that he's had for 35 years now. So we've never had the luxury of carrying fire arms or, you know, things that have lethal force. So we always used our smarts and our brains, and alternative ways of capturing fugitives. That's been or forte for many years.
Well, you know, the high-speed chase happened -- we did go on some sort of chase, and we don't take the speeds that are beyond the speed limit. These are residential areas. These are 7:00 in the evening. There's children running back and forth, playing basketball. You know, it's just not in the community's safety for us to be taking a guy on a high-speed chase. If we're going at fast speeds, that means our defendant is going to go at even faster speeds. So we have to call off our chase at that point and we have to regroup and find him again.
The police came right after the first gunshots were fired. Once the first shots were fired, the neighbors ran inside, called the police, and said there was a gun-fight going on in front of their apartment building.
The other reason is they didn't find any of those other things on the scene is because that crime scene was quickly overtaken by our fans. There was at least 100 people on the scene. The police were having a hard time cordoning off the block and they couldn't do a thorough seventh of the whole parking lot.
Yes, domestic violence. He's been charged with a felon in possession of a firearm by a previous offender. And he's been charged with attempted murder.
When we cause Mr. Nguyen and put him in the backseat of our car, he said -- Dog said to him, what are you doing shooting at my family? You can't even do that. I'm getting upset that you tried to take shots at my family. And our fugitive basically told Duane, I'm very sorry about that. So, you know, people just get desperate, Larry.
The criminals are a lot more violent these days.
We'll trade positions. You can be the bounty hunter.
Yes, it's tough sometimes.
I don't think we could do anything else.
Put you in jail.
You have to be supervised.
You're so welcome, Larry. Thanks for having us.
