Thank you, nice to be here.
Well, first of all, there is a lot of enforcement that actually does take place, but these are very big issues, and there are very large numbers of people. The enforcement that takes place is primarily at the border, but there's a lot of enforcement that takes place in the interior of the country.
There are a lot of laws that the federal government is required or has the authority to enforce in the interior. So immigration is dealing with employers. It's dealing with fraudulent document mills. It's dealing with smugglers. It's dealing with other countries. And it's dealing with very large numbers of people that are being removed from the country, detained and being removed from the country.
So we shouldn't think that there's no law enforcement going on. But there are also some real weaknesses in the laws, and that's a lot of what the immigration debate is about is strengthening the laws.
Well, I think that the politics is an important part of it. I also think that all of our law enforcement agencies, not simply Immigration, do have to set priorities, do have to decide what are the most important areas of emphasis, and that changes. That shifts over time.
I mean, when I was there in the 1990s, the economy was growing. It was very  employers wanted to have workers, and people were pretty willing to overlook any kinds of violations of immigration law.
When Julie was there, it was after 9/11, and we had a very different outlook on what it is that enforcement ought to look like.
It has gone up in smoke, and a lot of it is because these issues really do go to much deeper issues about what kinds of values we have as a country, how do we want our law enforcement to look in the interior of the country? Because no matter what happens with immigration enforcement, the effect will actually fall more heavily on United States citizens than it will on any other group. And so we are really talking about things that are very close to the core of who we think we are.
Do we want our fingerprints collected, as has been mentioned? Do we want to carry identification documents? Are we prepared to all be checked when we're hired as against federal databases? These are issues that are involved in ultimately getting the kind of law enforcement on immigration that some of the more  some of the really strong voices wanting more enforcement, that's what's actually being brought to the table.
A system like E-Verify should be mandatory. Until it is, we won't have the kind of ability to enforce the law against employers that we need.
Well, that's  I mean, that's the whole point in terms of this being a voluntary system. It's...
That's right.
We're agreeing, but the Congress has to act. It's got to be legislated to make it mandatory. That is not something that the executive branch can do on its own, and that's part of why it is that legislation is so essential to strengthen these laws.
Well, it would, but I think that that is the kind of a world that we would love to get to at some point in the future, but we're certainly not there yet.
The big analogy here, of course, is Europe and the European Union. What we find in the European Union is that the free movement of people across borders was the very last piece, along with currency reform, of the agreement to go into place, because the Europeans took essentially 30 years from the time that they committed to a European Union to even out living standards among their southern and their northern countries so that they're...
...and they're not even so even. But they're much more even than they were 30 years ago when they began, so that there wasn't an absolute deluge kind of an effect.
Now, we have never, in North America, committed to a trade  I mean a common market. We've committed to a trade agreement. So this is a very  this would take a whole series of steps before we get to the point where it would be comfortable and manageable to have a free flow of labor.
Yes, we can compare, and we - the agencies do compare. But you're talking about a situation where the vast majority of those people who overstay their visas came here as visitors on a tourist visa. They were traveling around the country. They list as their addresses, perfectly, honestly and properly, a hotel in New York and then one at the Grand Canyon and then another one somewhere at Yellowstone.
So you don't have a good way of following up on where they are and finding them that's cost-effective. So as a result, the way in which enforcement against overstays takes place is basically two ways.
If they commit a criminal act, then in one way or another they generally get connected with immigration enforcement. If we had a more airtight way of checking on people that are hired for jobs, that would be the most effective way of intercepting those people, because fundamentally they're staying here to work.
And so this discussion we had earlier about verification and about hiring rules, if that was applying and used by all employers, one could intercept those people far more readily.
Well, it is a very important point about the inequity, and I think in any kind of an amnesty or legalization proposition, you have to accept the fact that there is an unfairness. It's a practical kind of a response.
But it is also the case that all of the proposals do call for this back of the line, and as Julie says, it is certainly the case that the people who would receive a legalization, even with a penalty, et cetera, would be already in the country.
The reason those people who have tried to play by the rules and apply from abroad are not able to come as readily is because our immigration law is out of date and the quotas and ceilings are artificial, particularly for the countries where the largest family members are coming from.
And that would have  Congress would have to put far more numbers into the system in order to make it possible for those backlogs to be worked off before the people already in the country would get legal status, and we would need a system into the future that doesn't just immediately create the same kinds of backlogs again.
That's going to require some real rethinking of some things that we've held onto very tightly. For instance, should we give more numbers to high immigration countries such as the Philippines, such as Mexico, such as India, or should we maintain the idea that we've had for many years that every country should be treated equally?
Those kinds of debates are still lurking out there, and we have to have those debates if we're going to try to rationalize this system for the future.
There are cross-currents within both parties. That's one of the things that is so difficult about this issue, is that both the Republican Party and the Democratic Party have fundamental disagreements within their own ranks on how - and contending political tensions within their own ranks on how it is that immigration should be done.
Within the Democratic Party, it is certainly, as the caller points out, the Latino vote and the immigrant vote in general that's important, but the counterbalance to that is labor unions and the influence of organized labor, which has traditionally taken a much tighter, more restrictive view of immigration. There are similar...
Well, but that's between new unions and old unions. So there's a further breakdown within the constituencies that the different parts of the labor movement represent. So this is exactly why it is that immigration legislation cannot happen, has never happened in the modern era unless it's a strongly bipartisan effort because it will lose votes on one side and on the other side of both of the parties.
The - you're certainly correct in what it is that our working assumption was at that time. We did believe that - well, we believe because of the history of border crossing. The history of border crossing had been basically four areas where almost 80 percent of the crossings took place: San Diego, Nogales, El Paso and McAllen. We did not anticipate that the smuggling routes would change as quickly as they changed. We believed that we would be able to get control more quickly than the smuggling routes change. That proved to be an erroneous assumption.
But the answer to that - and obviously, the deaths at the border is not something that anybody invited, would defend. There have actually always been deaths at the border. There were deaths at the border before border enforcement was strengthened in the 1990s and in the 2000s. But nobody ever came...
No, I am very, very distressed about the death situation at the border. I think that it is certainly not, as you say, the kind of country that we want to be, and we need to solve that problem. But the answer to solving the problem is not to not enforce the border. We must enforce the border. The answer is to have a set of laws and a balanced enforcement system so that the enforcement that takes place in the interior of the country is proportionate to what takes place at the border, so the jobs are not available for people who are not supposed to be crossing the border.
In fact, if we had regulated flows that matched what our labor market needs would be, people would be able to come into the country for work purposes. There would be sufficient visas for those kinds of workers to come that way. They would not be forced to cross the border in an irregular fashion, in a way that leads to the kind of dangers that bring about deaths. So it goes back, again, to what we always come back to. We need a new structure of laws and a much better mechanism for enforcing those laws in order to respond to these kinds of clearly unjust, indefensible circumstances.

Thank you, very pleased to be here.
I think one of the really interesting things about the way the debate is unfolding now is the catch-up that needs to be done. There is certainly a set of perceptions that are out there, Jan Ting is talking about those perceptions, but an awful lot has changed. And a tremendous amount has changed in the politics that are now surrounding this bill, the fact that somebody like Senator McCain has come back to the table on a bill like this.
That reflects a lot of new realities, and maybe the most important reality is the reality on the ground, where the nature of illegal immigration today is concerned. Our illegal immigration, principally from Mexico, has fundamentally stopped. We're at a different point in history.
We are at a point where we have negative flows. The size of the population in the country without permission is static. It's not growing. And that's been the case since about 2007, 2008. It's a function of the labor market and of our own recession and the slow growth of our own economy, but it's also the function of very significant changes in Mexico that are structural changes.
Mexico's fertility rate has come way down. Its age curve is changing. It's no longer a country where the majority of people are coming into the labor market. It has grown well. And we have put very significant enforcement into place.
So the mix of enforcement, changes in Mexico, changes in our own economy and a likely economy in the future that while it will be better in the United States will be unlikely to be a different economy, creates a different moment.
Well, Democrats, obviously, need to step up to this issue, given the way that the election was won. I mean, this was a very, very important victory based heavily on certain groups voting, the largest among them Latino voters. So they have a debt to pay. But I must say that although this argument has been around for a long time, that it's - of course, the case that to keep this issue alive as an open sore gives each party a way to push back at the other one. But at least right now, there is a slightly different tone in all of this discussion.
And this is, of course, always what happens with issues that are around and around and around. At a certain point, a kind of high politics take over. We don't know yet. We won't know for a while whether that really has set in. But it might be that at the very stratospheric level in terms of what has to be done for both parties to evolve and save themselves - particularly for the Republican Party - they simply have to grapple with this issue. And it is not enough to say that Latinos will eventually vote for Republicans because they tend to be entrepreneurial, family-oriented, socially conservative. Those things are all true.
But the way in which the immigration issue has been discussed and the way in which Latinos and immigrants have been demonized in Republican Party campaigns and policies is a block to Latinos being able to be seen as likely to be a much more diverse voting population. And that's what the Republican Party has to deal with. The Republican Party is divided now over that issue.
Well, I think it's very tough. We should not be deluded at the difficulty that is here. But there is an alignment now that is - that makes it possible. There is reason for some degree of optimism because of the post-election politics that we're in, and because of the facts on the ground and how the facts on the ground have changed that we haven't seen for at least six, seven years, and maybe more than a decade. So it is definitely something that could happen. It'll be very tough to get there at the same time.
Thank you.

According to the estimates that they gave, it buys, I believe, about 700 miles of fencing. Some of that is replacement fencing. The enforcement budget at the present time for the southwest border is somewhere in the neighborhood of 15 to 20 billion a year, so adding 18 billion is doubling that just for fencing. So it is putting an enormous amount of investment into a response that has proven to be useful only as a partial response.
Well, there are 300,000 apprehensions. There are less actual people that are being apprehended. That sounds like a large number, but that's not compared to just 10 or 15 years ago, when it was well over a million - 1.6 million. So the overall trend here is dramatically down. The more important thing is the change in the character of the flow.
The flow is now more than half people from Central American countries. They are asylum-seekers. They are looking for a Border Patrol agent to turn themselves over to or they're coming more and more now to ports of entry and presenting themselves. And those reasons are less likely to be mitigated by fencing than they are by an effective and timely decision system in our immigration courts and in our asylum system in order to decide these cases in a timely fashion. The other investment that is very important to make at the present time is at our legal ports of entry.
Well, San Ysirdo, Nogales, El Paso - the bridges and the highways that bring people and trucks and goods into the United States and hundreds of millions of crossings in some of these ports of entry every year. That's a big infrastructure issue of building those out in ways that makes it possible for enforcement personnel to examine more people coming into the country. That's...
Definitely investment dollars should go there because more and more, that is the weak link.
Yes, it's certainly true that Democrats have voted for funding for barriers in the past. I mean, when I was commissioner in the 1990s of the immigration service - it was a Democratic administration - we were the first to go to the Congress with proposals for fencing. So this - fencing has been part of the border response for a long time. Democrats are not walking away from strengthening border security and from strategies that include fencing and maintaining the fencing. They are objecting, however, to the idea of a wall across the entire southwest border - 2,000 miles - at a price tag that is astronomical.
I think there could be common ground. Whether they really want to come to the table and resolve this, well, it's hard to say. But if there is goodwill, there certainly is common ground.

Thank you.
Right.
Well, so here is the situation. What - the reference that they're making is to a court settlement called the Flores decision, which took place in 1997. I'm very familiar with it because I signed it. And it was a settlement of a long-standing piece of litigation that said that children would be detained in the least restrictive setting possible and for the shortest period of time in order to be placed with either a family member or another care situation.
That law - that - and that's not a law. It's a court settlement, but it has the force of law. And it has been expanded by another court judgment just a few years ago to apply both to children and to families with children. So it is valid to say that it has the force of law. It is not actually a law. It would have - to change it would require legislation, which is what the Congress is talking about.
However, it is a judgment on the part of the administration how to implement that court decision. And this implementation of the court decision that says children need to be separated from their parents because their parent is being prosecuted - that has never happened before in the past from the time that this settlement took place through other administrations - both Democratic and Republican administrations.
Everybody has recognized that this issue is a balancing act - that we, of course, have a responsibility to enforce the laws at the border. But to those who are especially vulnerable - young people and families - there are other measures that can be taken that, of course, enforce the law but are not so excessively harsh as to violate a principle so fundamental as young children being in detention for long periods of time.
Well, the attorney general is within his authority to make this decision. The immigration courts are in the Department of Justice, and they are an administrative law body, and so they do - they report to the attorney general, the executive branch. They're not part of the judicial branch even though they carry out judicial functions. And the attorney general does have the authority to do what's called certifying case decisions to himself for review.
And so in the case of asylum and the types of cases that are coming forward now, it's clear that this administration and this attorney general has viewed the law as being lax - again, something they continually talk about in its application. And so he certified a case onto himself and issued a significant narrowing of the grounds for granting asylum in cases such as those we're seeing from Central America. That now stands as a precedent decision in the way that any court judgment would. And so immigration judges as well as asylum officers are bound by this narrower guidance, and it will make it much more difficult.
I have to say this is a manufactured crisis. I mean, we have so many fewer people crossing the Southwest border today than we did 15 years ago. But the nature of the flow has changed. It's no longer a Mexican flow. It is now a flow from Central America that is a mixed flow. It has humanitarian cases, people that are possibly eligible for asylum as well as others who are not. And that requires making decisions on a case-by-case basis.
So the emphasis here should be in investing in our decision making systems, which are immigration courts and our asylum officers and deciding the cases. That is the way to have deterrence but, at the same time, fairness.
Thank you.

Thank you very much.
Well, they pretty much tell us that things are in a steady state. The comparison here of July being down from June is certainly true, but July is down from June typically over recent years. So what the Trump administration is looking at, of course, is what has been an aberration, which was last year.
When the Trump administration first came in, in its early months, there was what's been referred to as a Trump effect - a real reduction. But if you look at the last several years and then this year, what's happening this year is returning to that norm over the last three or four years. And July comes down from June just at about the same percentage levels.
Well, it tends to be weather patterns. It's very, very hot at this time of year, and it's very risky to cross the border. And so there tends to be a dip in the summertime.
Well, I think it means a number of things. I mean, most importantly, it means that the reasons that people are leaving continue to be very strong reasons. The danger and the violence and the safety for families that families are seeking are still primary push factor.
It also means that these very harsh policies that were put into place were so harsh and so excessive that they lasted only for weeks before they had to change. And so the effort that the administration is making to message a change actually isn't a real change. It was very short-lived.
I think the, you know, deeper message here, of course, is that the reasons people are leaving are - continue to be in place. And when they do get here, they are not, by all means, applying for asylum. But those who are applying for asylum do continue to be permitted to pursue that claim. And deciding those claims takes years.
So the effort to get here and taking the chance of filing a claim does mean that people will be safe for some considerable period of time. If you were really trying to deal with these issues in a serious way beyond the high-visibility rhetoric and excessive measures that the administration has tried to take, which can't be sustained, you would be making investments in those systems that make the decisions so the decisions are made in a more timely fashion.
Well, this, of course, is such a difficult issue because so much of the illegal population in the United States is a visa overstay. But when you look at those visa overstay numbers, even though they are very large numbers, they are very small percentages of the numbers of people that have actually traveled to the United States. And though there is a pretty large number that don't leave exactly when their visa has expired...
...They do, in large share, leave within a few months after that. So the overstay population is probably in the realm of about 1 percent of the hundreds of thousands of people that travel...
...To the United States with visas. But it's true that the visa overstay issue never gets the kind of attention that the southwest border gets. And it is a very significant aspect of our issues of resident illegal population in the United States.
