Christiane, I've been 43 years with U.N., of which I've spent most of the time in 21 conflict areas. We met each other in Afghanistan, in Iraq and many other places, Somalia. This is the most complex I've ever seen. Why? Well, because in particular, there are so many players, so many stakeholders. I've been counting, about 18 when you look at it, between regional countries involved, about international players and countries involved and internal and external. That's what makes it very complicated.
See, this was prepared by women of Syria who gave it to me. And for the first time I realized what we have to again reassert. And you have been doing it today. Well, this book is showing us these are people.
-- every page has a name of a man, a woman, a child with a name, a date of birth, a location. These were people would have been alive if we had stopped this conflict before. And this is a small book because they should have been two of them by now, 220,000. Can't we realize that this conflict will lead only to one suffering, the people of Syria?
You see, that's the paradox and I think that's why we have to remember this book . That's why we have to remember what the Syrian people are telling us. Enough. We can't sustain this anymore. This has been too long. Just because we are in the wrong place, because when I meet every interlocutor, they all say to me and they say there is no military solution. They all agree there is only a political solution. But then somehow there is an automatic gear on that horrible car called the war which goes on and on. So --
Of course. And believing that there is one, that's why we have to break it by remembering the people and making some reduction of the violence in order to produce a confidence building nation and say, OK. You're saying that? Let's test it.
I can't speak for the U.S. What I can do is saying that without Iran involved in the process of a political solution for Syrian conflict it would be a big mistake. There is a major regional player. It is involved. It has influence on the Syrian government and it has a stake. We need to involve them. That's how you get political solution, not by excluding people but including them in what should be a political process.
Well, let's put it like this. I think everybody including Bashar al-Assad and President Assad and everyone else in their own heart realize that there is no military victory here. They may pretend, they may hope but they know that it cannot be done. The proof is four years, 220,000 people killed, 1 million wounded, no real change on the ground except one advance here and one retreat there. So bottom line, I believe that if we get everyone around the table, especially because everybody has realized about this new factor -- look at this map, if I may.
This map is showing to all of us how actually ISIS, Daish, is in Syria and in Iraq. So they're looking, waiting for take advantage of the conflict.
Correct.
Correct.
Twenty-two kilometers.
Well, first of all, if it falls, it will be a humanitarian tragedy because we have at least 400,000 refugees in addition to the 0.6 million which are in Turkey, the 3.2 million in total.
Exactly, which would be a humanitarian tragedy. If then it falls into the hands of ISIS, you can imagine would be a massacre. We cannot afford it. No one can afford it. We should not allow that. That why we need a freeze, reduction of violence and in order to make sure that even a beam of hope goes in, don't forget, the Syrian people need that beam of hope. They are asking for that. They need to believe that there is something beyond that.
What I said the other day was that he is part of what needs to be a formula for reduction of violence. Whoever has got weapons, airplanes, barrel bombs, artillery and on the other side mortar shelling, the opposition, needs to be part of the reduction of violence. As far as the future, let's be frank. It's not up to the U.N., to me or anyone else that should decide except the Syrian people who should be part of the future. But that's why we need a political process. And without excluding anyone so that they would then come to that conclusion.
Well, I can't answer for him.
Yes, we didn't talk about that at this stage. We were talking about how to reduce violence because I was having in mind this book. And I sought at this stage -- the first thing is in every peace plan is first reduce the violence, cease-fires. We call them freezes because the previous cease-fires were not that good. Second, a political process. We will get there. We will see. But we need to test it. The time has come to put pressure in a way for a political process. We can't go on six years, seven years and have this book that high and the whole region exploding.

The countries who can make an influence are: USA and Russia to start with. They are talking. They are actually talking constructively at the moment. But not enough to reach a conclusion about the mother of all issues, which is how to find an architecture of the future of Syria, which has enough credible, substantial change of governance combined with a sufficient, sustainable continuation of the state as such, because we don't want -- no one wants -- another Libya, another Iraq. And then two other countries, let's call them by name because they are the ones who can and should make a difference, Iran and Saudi Arabia, Saudi Arbia and Iran. If Saudi Arabia and Iran start talking, America and the U.S. and the Russia are talking at the moment but not to the point of concluding. Iran and Saudi Arabia, unfortunately, are not yet talking.
Not to me, but to the Syrian solution, to the Syrian conclusion of this conflict, it's critical. Anyone today will not be naive enough to believe that if we exclude Iran from the equation there will not be a solution on this conflict. Iran and Saudi Arabia have been supporting the two sides very actively. They are part of a regional tension that we need to help to be solved. It's not only Syria, look at Lebanon, look at Yemen, look at Iraq. Isn't it time finally for them to sit and talk? That's how conflicts have ended in the past. Now, Iran is ready to talk. The important thing is to qualify how far are they ready to consider that we cannot go back to the past.
Well, it's not for me to agree or not agree. What I can say is the following, that any type of partial solution of a military nature to a conflict that cannot be won, they've tried for five years, everyone, to win through a proxy approach a conflict which has been not winnable. So the time is not to look at partial solutions, why...
Correct. And that's most likely. And we will lose another six months, another year of tragedy. Isn't it time, instead, for looking at the global solution. It's very simple, in theory. The war could end in one month, believe me, once the oxygen will have been taken away from both sides and telling them, look, we are not going to fueling you anymore, either side, with money and weapons. Sit down about a possible road map, which we have it. The thing is, let's go to it. Then, the conflict will be over, and buffer zone or non-buffer zone will become obsolete.
I didn't say that. I didn't say that because it's not for me to say that, that's up for the Syrian people to say that. One day they will be given a chance for free, honest, really UN internationally monitored elections who should be their leader, whoever will he be. What I'm saying is that currently, in order to conclude a conflict. Due to this crisis and due to the trigger of the refugees, there is no more time for niceties or diplomatic malaise or postponements or partial solution. It's to push Russia and America to continue seriously their dialogue and conclude it. And above all, to put enough, more pressure on those who can make a difference. Iran and Saudi Arabia, for god's sake, sit together, do something about what otherwise will employed the whole region. And would be endless.

The reason is very simple. The Syrians themselves have been telling us and telling everyone that they will never be able to have a common ground unless those who have been sponsoring, supporting, helping or pushing them have been actually have a common agreement. The Syrian different groups and the Syrian government will be involved and needs to be involved. That's why we have established a focal working groups, which have been waiting for starting working but they need the energy of the international and regional political support. We have learned this. Otherwise, they will not be able to agree.
Well, a big difference. First of all, the fact that in the same room you will have Iran and Saudi Arabia together with the United States, Russia, Turkey and many other countries who are having an influence and can have even more influence in finding a solution. Secondly, the fact that Iran and it's not a secret, they are heavily involved in Syria. They are strongly supporting the current government. And therefore they do have a possibility of realizing, too, that if they are not part of the solution, there will not be a solution. And we know that they know that there is no military solution.
I am not going to elaborate on that. The most important thing is the facts and we should look at facts. And the fact is that Saudi Arabia and Iran and these countries are going to be sitting in one small room in Vienna tomorrow. And that room could make history if we start talking seriously about political process.
Imagine for a moment there would need to be not only visionary but hopeful because the Syrian people need to have some feeling that the international community is seriously this time is looking at the political process. So imagine that tomorrow the meeting goes well or at least maintains the momentum, I repeat the momentum. Imagine that takes place, we could engage very quickly the Syrian people and the different entities quite quickly.
What you can say my state of mind is that I am cautious. We have had so many up and down in this tragic history. But it's the first time we are seeing a serious, genuine intention of meeting and sitting around a table. From that point of view, not only I'm hope. We are also determined to not miss this opportunity.

That's correct, because there are a lot of work still to be done. What we want to ensure is that, this time, it will not be like Geneva 2, a serious talk about peace and not talk about talks.
Well, first of all, I'm not alone; we had a Vienna group, as you know, with Russia and America, which are talking.
Correct. But they're also interested in making these talks start. There is something different than before. They really have a genuine interest in seeing the talks starting. Now these are about the Syrians, OK? At a certain point, vetoes is part also of posturing and pre-negotiations; in diplomacy, we know it. And you're seeing how, between Iran and the U.S., diplomacy can work but there is a lot of preparation and posturing. I believe we can start the talks. That's not on the 25th. But we need to maintain the pressure and we need to maintain the momentum.
No, I don't because I've been in Damascus recently and I had a feeling that they were starting thinking that. But they were also thinking one thing, that this conflict has been up and downs, ups and downs, and victory over this month becomes a defeat next week. Secondly, Russia is involved. But I want to believe that Russia has a great vested interest in not getting involved for too long. And I think the Americans and the Russians are talking about that as well.
Correct. But the Iranians do -- and I think you probably heard recently Minister Zarif saying, we have learned to listen. There is no military solution.
Every negotiation, unfortunately, in history -- and you and I have seen many -- when there is a serious potential for the real negotiation, you will see everybody trying, first verbally rhetorically and secondly, military, to take a better position. We should look at it with concern but not being pressed. We should just push for it because we know that the Syrian people and basically everyone now realize that this cannot go on.
It is complicating. But one good news, at least, I went both to Saudi Arabia and to Tehran just when the discussion, the tensions took up. And I got from both of them a guarantee publicly that at least in Syria this will not be affected. It will play that tension elsewhere because they, too, probably realize that the time has come for at least trying to find a political solution, which will be a compromise. No one will be totally happy. Perhaps the only ones happy will be the Syrians, who finally will see the end of this horror.
Well, that's why I've been, on behalf of the secretary general, linking the beginning of the talks and the continuation of the talks, when they --
-- start, with concrete demonstrations of something for the Syrian people -- ceasefires, convoys -- we have had now four of them, not enough -- but it is at least a continuation and not just one every three months. So we will constantly link what we call confidence building measures to talks. The Syrian people don't believe anymore when they hear about the conference. God knows how many conferences we've had. So we will and we will continue to say, you want to talk? Link it also with some walk.
Well, first of all, I must say, the Americans, and particularly through John Kerry, have shown that perhaps they have not got as involved militarily and that's a discussion that they should take in their own country. But they are certainly got heavily involved politically. We would have not had Vienna talks -- which are not just talks. These are really a group of countries, can imagine, Iran and Saudi Arabia, Russia and America, sitting around the table and being talking about how to end this war? I think they're putting a lot of political capital in it and probably the Russians are serious because they don't want to end up in a long, endless conflict in Syria. They, too, want a solution.
Thank you.

I'm not going to blame any country or another. What we are blaming, the fact that this is an occasion that cannot be missed. In other words, whoever is accelerating military activities should be knowing that this is the wrongest thing to do when we talk about peace negotiations. What we need at the moment is actually gestures towards every both sides about the fact that we are serious about wanting to seek negotiations.
At the end of the day, everyone who is involved in Syria should be involved in their future and the chance for every component of the Syrian entities -- and there are so many, from the Kurds -- there are the Christians, the Sunnis, the Shia -- should be all part of the future. And they will have a chance to contribute to that. But we need to start first gunmen and opposition because peace is made among people who are fighting each other.
There will be a moment when everyone will have its own chance to be represented. Meanwhile, let's give a chance now that we have challenged ourselves and the 18 countries who do constitute the so-called special group of support of Syria to meet in Munich. That's only few days from now. They will have to give us an answer whether they are serious in one thing to be serious about the future of Syria and not just simply asking for a conference.
You know, that's what diplomacy is all about, Hala. You can have talks when people don't want to talk to each other, and we talk to them, and then convey the message and try to come up with some type of common ground. That's what we call creativity. You know, you don't need to sit across the same table. You can have a meeting in one room and tell me what you feel and then I meet the other group, like basically when people disagree with each other. They don't like each other, but they came to talk about the future, we give them a chance. Don't worry. There will be a moment when they will be sitting in the same room if they do have some common ground. That's our job, to try to find that.
Wait for Munich, and wait to see what the 18 countries especially those who have an influence in it, and you know who they are. There's U.S., Russia, and Saudi Arabia, Iran, Turkey, Qatar, who have an influence on what's happening on the ground, to actually confront the reality. Which is they -- we need, the Syrians need some concrete demonstration that these talks can be serious and then we will judge again. Do give me a chance to be interviewed after Munich and then I will be able to be more precise.

Thank you. Thank you.
The short answer is, by large, it's holding. Satisfaction needs to be careful, because I'm not seeing in 45 years of my professional life, igniting conflicts any cease-fire or cessation of hostilities magically taking place overnight.
I've just decided today for purely logistical reasons, you know -- invitations, hotels, travels, visas -- that we will not start on the 7th but on the 9th, two days afterwards, after noon so that we give the time for delegations to actually show up in Geneva.
Well, a lot has happened, Christiane. Think about it. We had, just after that suspension of the talks, which I did call for, we had the Munich meeting. And I think you were there, by the way. And the Munich meeting was quite historical in a way because it addressed exactly two areas. One was the humanitarian aid. We needed to see progress on it. And the second one, there was a clear commitment about starting what is unheard of, after five years: an actual cessation of hostilities. Both roads have started. Humanitarian aid started moving -- not enough, not everywhere, not enough medical, for instance -- but 110,000 people reached, 207 trucks moved. So movement, not enough but movement. On the cessation of hostilities, you saw it. We have had the Russians and Americans agreeing. And, by and large, a huge difference from what was happening two weeks ago.
Again, not enough.
But a start.
Well, let me reply that I listen to what it says but I listen by far more to what international community have been saying, including Russia, Iran and everyone else, U.S., who were at the Munich meeting. And the Munich commitment is talking about terrorists only Al-Nusra and daish, i.e., those who had been listed by the Security Council. Those are terrorists. All the others, if they abide to the cease-fire and they come to the talks need to be treated accordingly.
What he said is true. And frankly, one of the biggest problems we have been having -- and that will be the challenge of next week, when we'll have the next task force on humanitarian aid -- is to make sure that medicines reach people. I'll give you an example. In the last convoys, antibiotics were pulled out, vitamins were pulled out. Trauma kits, which are taking care of people who have been having a stone or a house falling on them, that cannot continue.
Well, because the various roadblocks were actually being militarized and they felt that this could go ending up in saving life, not of people but of the fighters. We cannot accept that. Syrian people need to have more medicines and we will work on that. You will see, we will be pushing hard on it.
Very good point. I've been asking -- thank you for giving this opportunity because there's been a lot of questions on that. Having a classical monitoring of a cease-fire, like we used to have, 5,000 U.N. Blue Berets sitting or standing and walking, moving around in the country, out of the question in a country like this. We could have done it. We could do it in a year's time, six months' time. Can the Syrians wait for it? No. So the Americans and the Russians have agreed on a different type of formative cease-fire. Operation centers, one in Geneva, managed by them, supported by us, they are the ones who are actually monitoring, through their own contacts and through their own drones or satellites and information and comparing notes, whenever there is an incident. Another operation center in Amman, one in Moscow and one in Washington. It won't be perfect but it's sufficient to be able, in my opinion, to be creatively detecting when there are infringements.
You see, Christiane, that's exactly why we should all pray and work for solving this crisis in Syria. These people are dignified people. These are proud people. I met so many of them. They love their country. They don't want to leave their country. They want to stay. So the solution is a political end of this conflict. They don't run away from an earthquake. They don't run away from bad weather because there is bumps from one side and the other. You will see, the moment they're starting detecting that the conflict is changing, that humanitarian aid is coming, that there is a light at the end of the tunnel, they will not want to leave.
