Hey there.
Well, for me, I think - we had a little bit of this conversation right before we came in. I think what has happened to Ben Carson is that they thought about - you know, I wrote this book - or all these books that tell my story. And when you're writing a book to talk about your life, I'm sure you embellish a little bit to make it more creative, to be sold. But now you're in this place that you want to be the president of the United States of America, and you have a political corps - press corps that's going to question you on some of these things because it's also about who you say you are as a person. And when you say you're an honest person but you can't rightly explain some of the things that you're saying that happened didn't happen, kind of happened, was sort of like this, then your credibility becomes shot. I mean, everyone...
He's running on his biography.
Yes.
I mean, to say we all understand - or maybe we don't all understand - but there is an understanding that when you are accepted into West Point, it is upon an appointment. And then furthermore, everyone goes on a scholarship. I mean, that's how it happens there. And, you know, the thing that caught my attention during that presser was when he said, I don't know, they offered it. But then in his book he said, you know, Gen. Westmoreland and et cetera. - so he knew exactly who was giving him the offer of an appointment, But he couldn't recollect that during the press conference? Yeah, I don't buy him...
Oh, I absolutely believe that someone said hey, you're smart, you're intelligent. Your grades look great. You know, have you considered West Point? I mean, just like any other athlete that's out, you know, getting all these different kind of offers - but I just believe that his ability to explain it and just didn't do like Michael said - just say exactly what happened and keep it moving.
Yes.
Quite simply, I find that comment laughable. That - I mean, really? I believe that if anybody went back to the record - just like you said, once he showed competitiveness, it was as equally deep into his background, talking about where he grew up, et cetera. Whether you want to say it was more from a conservative media outlet or general media outlet, everybody picked it up. Everybody still talked about it. He still was questioned about it. He still will even questioned - well, how do you feel about whether you - you know, people asking for your birth certificate? So it still came into the mainstream.
Exactly. It was - exactly.
And still to this day.
Everybody wants clean water and clean air, OK?
Everybody...
Not every...
...Place does, OK?
Let's not go there about the fracking and all that stuff. But anyway, we'll move on, I digress. You know, what I think what has happened is interesting. I think that TransCanada decided to pull out. And he was like, you know what? No, I'm going to go ahead and make the decision. But I think politically though - I mean, yes, he made the decision. Everybody can say it was all political, whatever. But I think the politics of it for me was a little disingenuous. I think everybody pushed the envelope on every side. I think the environmentalists pushed it too far. I think also the unions talking about jobs. I mean, it was not going to create that many jobs. When you've had 68 consecutive months of jobs creation, 42,000 temporary jobs, which is building, and then it was going to go down to 50 permanent jobs? At the end of the day, it wasn't going to be benefiting us or the crude oil.
Everybody.
Excited about it.

Hey there.
What I - what - you know, I guess from the political perspective of what I hear is he's just playing right into her game. Like, he - she wants the conversation between him and her to be around the sexism that he automatically already puts out. But now he has focused it towards her, so it gives her something that she can actually poke at and peel back at and that - honestly, I feel like he fell into her own trap. So now he has all week, unlike how he has before been a little bit more apologetic. He's been more apologetic this time than he really has the last time, or he's been explaining himself more than he has beforehand, usually as a matter fact. So yeah, it was stupid on his part. But...
...He fell into her playbook.
Right.
Exactly. I think one - the way that I look at it is he opened the door. Now, we can debate on whether The Washington Post should have walked through that door and actually put that picture - but the actual ad really depicted that whole sentiment of just bringing your children into a conversation around a particular person and taking that story and having them being a part of the politics versus saying oh, here's my beautiful family...
Right.
Oh, yes.
Oh, no, no.
Oh, yeah, I - again - if I was the mother, of course I'd be very upset. And as a mother, I would not want my child, an African-American son, depicted as a monkey. I think that was inappropriate on The Washington Post's part. But I also say when you bring your children into the debate - not about just showing your family but having them talking about the Grinch who used emails or tried to get away - I mean, they have them in what I call the messiness of politics versus just saying here, as a prop, my beautiful family and wouldn't you want to see them in the White House?
They opened the door. We shouldn't have walked through it as the media, but they opened the door.
Thank you.

Glad to be back.
Well...
Right.
I was just thinking about that. Yes, he could have gone and yes, he could have shown bipartisanship. And I think - or ease the political banker - rancor that is out there. But I think, you know, a lot of times that needs to be a two-way street. And this is a way that unfortunately gave those who look for opportunity to criticize to criticize. However, when you think about the reverence and what happens and takes place at a funeral that case, if it were my family and how they do, they don't even have a eulogy. And they - it's a very sacred type of event. And to have the president there could have been disruptive. And yes...
Right.
But...
Exactly...
...But those funerals were highly televised and were pushed before...
But pushed for a public type of event. And he actually gave the eulogy. And I guess my point was that
I get that. I get it was televised. But I'm thinking more along the lines of he could've gone, yes.
Should he have gone?
I would just say I am glad that he paid respects. I don't think he had to go. I think that's my point. I don't think he had to go.
I think it doesn't matter what he says. I think he's turned the whole political system on its back. I believe that his bombastic reality and how he responds to things is what we come to respect and know, and I don't think it matters to this particular electorate. Those that are supporting him, like Ben said, the ideals about pro-choice, abortion rights, all of that is not necessarily concerned. What they feel is they've been disaffected because they haven't been heard. For those who have been establishment, who have been elected, who have been there, they have not done anything. You keep saying you're going to repeal Obamacare. It hasn't happened. You keep saying you're going to do this or that and it hasn't happened, so now they believe that because of who Trump is that he can actually make that happen.
Oh, my God.
No.
(Whispers) It's the ego.
It's the ego.
I'm not saying the ego is about the purpose. I'm saying the ego is for him to say you're going to get out or leap that he's going to be out, that his ego is saying no, I'm not because I do have a purpose. I do have something that America needs to see. That was my point of the purpose.
I think it was unfortunate because they would take oppor - because it's going to go viral like this. But to your point, there's no place that you can be private. I just think maybe it could've been orchestrated a little bit better. But if anybody walks by and sees two Secret Service people standing outside a closet, it's still going to be a little weird. And the fact that things, they...
But the funny thing about it is, is that...
...He came out still mad. Like, he's still upset about it. Like, whatever happened in the closet, it didn't resolve anything
Wow.

Good to be here.
Well, I found it very interesting listening to Omarosa and others who support Donald Trump in this situation because ultimately, a lot of things that he said actually from the podium during the rallies has been one to support the type of reaction from in fact his own supporters during the conference - I mean, during a rally. So as an example, you know, in Alabama, when a Black Lives Matter person was there, he said maybe he should have been roughed up, or he'd say I'd like to punch him in the face. I love the good-old days, you know what they say - used to do the guys like that when this thing - you know, carry him out on a stretcher. I mean, all of this kind of rhetoric that comes from the podium for someone who wants to run for the - for the United states of America just does not equal to me presidential decorum. And even Trump said the other day about how his daughter has advised him to say you need to be more presidential than that. And I just believe that there shouldn't be a surprise about how things happened there because he has also stoked the fire along those ways with this.
Yes.
In actuality, my conversation on Facebook was more about between the Bernie and Hillary supporters. And so as I actually - I have not made a declaration. I'm really honestly neutral in this point because I haven't made a decision.
I have until April 27 to make my vote.
And that is when I will make my decision because I am actually...
...Reading...
...Their policies in order to make my decision. But I'm also looking at mechanics. And when I look at mechanics and I may say oh, when Bernie said, you know, black people, ghetto, traditionally speak - and I made a comment that he should listen to his black advisers that are on his campaign and figure out a way to actually connect to black votes. And when I tell you everybody who were Bernie supporters, from white liberals who tell me oh, you should vote for him because he will do good for blacks - you can't tell me that. I'm reading everything. And so it's been very interesting. The whole environment seems different to me than, say, in 2008 when you were in a primary.
Thank you.

I do understand.
Oh, I'm sorry. But I do understand that there is a fear of uncertainty because I have a fear of my child just going into the men's restroom by himself anyway just because. I'm just nervous about it, but I allow him to go. I understand that there's a fear, but where the disconnect for me is that I don't see where it is rooted in fact.
And I think that's the part for me.
No, no, that's not correct.
That's not correct.
Yes, I've read it.
It doesn't appear to have a doctor, but it says...
But it does not say that you don't have to have a proof or have been operating in that way and that you have...
No...
Right.
Right.
Yes.
Whenever - a guidance - my understanding and my tenure in the administration, even when there's a guidance offered, there is time for comment. You still bring forth your issue to those bodies and let them know what your issue is.
Now, if you're talking about just a general back and forth whether it goes to Congress, that's a different thing. But this guideline gave suggestions and gave guidance on what it is under Title IX, and it also talked about even if they need...
Right.
Right. But if...
There is an implied threat. But I read each line. I'm totally OK with this. Like, it doesn't bother me, even though my religious belief around those issues that you talk about may differ, that's my belief. But I'm not the person to be judge and jury to litigate on how you decide to choose that.
So if that is the practice and the way that I want my child to grow up to be Christ-like, then that is not the honey that he will deliver to tell him you're a bad person, you're whatever because I see that as no different than any other thing that we talk about that's different from what we are.
Oh no, no...
Right.
I love heels. I love very stylish heels.
I've got on kitten heels today just because I'll be doing a little...
...Extra walking. But either you love them or you don't. I think if that's part of the dress code, you got to figure out the way to make it happen. And I don't - I mean, I think a tie is one of the things, but you don't, you know, some men find it very uncomfortable to have something tied up to them or a bowtie, whatever...
So sometimes it is.
Google Michelle Obama kitten heels and you will see them.
Yes.
He sure did...
...And had hip problems, though.
I think that kind of helped it...
...Yeah.
Thank you.

Hello.
There are a couple of things that have been weighing on my mind. The - I'm just really shocked by - I don't want to say shocked - the revelation about how reality TV and social media has shaped this type of election cycle where you have someone who is a reality star that is the - part of a major party.
And it makes me think about, you know, how I'm raising my child in this technology age. And how do I make sure that he really continues to stay in the books and all that stuff, and really reading and expanding his knowledge beyond 140 characters? And I think the other part of that is just the explosion of how do I raise my child in a place where you already knew from essay and all these other things about how racism and race is in our country and how we have so far to go, where there's a lot that has changed, but there's a lot that's the same? And it's a little disheartening.
And I'm wondering how we're going to heal as a country, really, after this because I feel yucky right now. I feel really, really yucky. Like, just stuff is just still left on me. So I just really can't wait till November 9. But then I really want to see how we're going to heal and come together.
(Laughter).
Right.
Yeah.
Right. Right.
Right.
I'm thinking, are the football players that sensitive that if somebody scored and they decided to do a dance...
...Or throw a football, that that would require retaliation? I mean, it must mean that there's some growing up that needs to be done, right? I mean, if you're crying over this - really? You're making millions of dollars. You're mad because somebody scored on you? Get back in the game and take the ball the next time.
...It's not about retaliating, right? I mean, I feel like sometimes we get so worked up over things that if someone's dancing, they're celebrating - what's wrong with celebrating that you made it, right? What's wrong with that? I mean, maybe because my child only plays flag football, so there's no really - no real contact, but he's excited when he's made a touchdown. He's not...
He's not twerking.
You know, he's just like, yes.
Right.
Right.
Exactly.
I just - I didn't - I never thought Wonder Woman was over-sexualized, and I grew up knowing her. So I was like, it's honorary. I'm not even understanding what kind of weight she would have as an honorary U.N. ambassador other than...
...She's got powers, right?
Uh-huh (ph).
I'm OK with that.
Thank you.

Good to be here.
I would say absolutely. It pains me to see - you know, a lot of times, I think about identity politics as I think about diversity and inclusion. And I think we've tried to make identity politics such a negative term when in all actuality, it is we are speaking to different sectors of voters, to their needs and their concerns. It doesn't mean that you negate somebody else as much as you're saying here is what we are going to do for you. Also, though, stop waiting on hearing from what you're going to do for us. We're going to tell you, here's what we expect, and your policies and legislation should reflect that.
And one thing I wanted to go back to is I'm a native of Alabama. I'm a Birmingham, Ala., person, and I kept telling everyone - and even African-Americans in Alabama said it's not enough of us to flip the state. And I disagreed with that because if we, not only energize and mobilize ourselves - we shouldn't have to wait on a party. We shouldn't have to wait on anyone else and get engaged in our civic responsibility to say, listen, we do not want that person to represent us.
But then also Doug Jones as a candidate had a relationship with the African-American community. And so when you look at that, the NAACP had no qualms with actually going out and saying across the state, we want you to do this. You also had organizations like Black Voters Matter as well as the Black PAC who said, we're going to contribute and fund this initiative to make sure that churches are able to register people to vote.
They did a distinct - they did a clear - it was also in part with Doug Jones campaign as well as the rest of those organizations I mentioned to say, listen, we're going to make a drill-down method. And he also went to those small counties - to those small churches and big churches to make sure he said, we're going to get that vote out, and we want you to know I'm here for you.
Of course. I think that's - I think people are worried about that. But I don't think that that's going to change. I think the only thing that really changes is more people, more women or men who have been sexually assaulted or there's been sexual misconduct in an industry or a workplace feel more comfortable to come forward. But I think you still, as a woman - we still operate in a male-dominated society, male-dominated industry. My concern is maybe what happens as far as a backlash, especially in corporate.
Yes, right. They'll take the Vice President Mike Pence.
Thank you.

Oh, thank you. Glad to be here.
It has been par for the course for this particular person that occupies the White House to find a way to divide our country along racial lines. So I wasn't surprised. It is who he is, and it's very comfortable for him to attack minorities, be it in the Congress or anywhere else.
Because he is speaking about African Americans. And he used such derogatory terms. And to even say that not even humans want to live there hurts so many people because he is challenging their very humanity based on the color of their skin. The negativity, the disregard is a problem and should always be addressed and called out.
Facts don't matter for this guy, OK? He sees people of color, and he describes them in the most derogatory terms. So he's hitting back at Cummings or trying to bully him just because he sits on this particular committee that is actually doing their job in investigating some of the things that are - been happening in this current administration.
The House Oversight Committee, yes.
We have all been growing increasingly frustrated and upset about the direction of this country. Not just about policies, right? We're going to likely disagree. But it has been this bomb that I call it he has exploded within this country along racial lines. We have all been frustrated, and so we found a way to actually do something and say something and push back on this narrative around what we're saying about black and brown people as if this is not our country. No matter where our background is, what he's doing as it relates to immigrants - we felt like it wasn't enough being said, and so coming together, we thought our voices together would make a stronger impact.
You know, at this point, it doesn't matter. If they want to dismiss it, they can, but they are dismissing the larger point that was being made. He challenged our patriotism. He challenged the citizenship of those four women who are citizens of this country. He consistently challenges that when it comes to people of color. And so at this point, if somebody wants to dismiss it just because they want to see it through the lens of politics, that's a problem. But we elevated the fact that because we served this country and because we love this country, it doesn't mean that we have to sit quietly as we see things going wrong in this country.
Thank you for having me.
