Nice to be here, Neal.
Oh, it's a great job being an armchair pathologist because no one can actually prove you're right or you're wrong.
That's right. A very prominent mystery writer and a historian published a book about who killed King Tut, and came up with a plot that I would say was Shakespearean, but it's actually pre-Shakespearean. In that King Tut's wife who was also his sister, was unhappy with him and worked with an evil general and an evil adviser to kill King Tut and take over the kingdom.
No.
Yes. He probably had an orthopedic or bone disorder called Kohler's disease that leads to a poor circulation to the bones in the foot. He probably broke his foot and walked with a limp. And in fact, in King Tut's tomb there are several walking sticks, his own walking sticks. And they have wonderful evidence of wear and tear.
He may have fallen at sometime and broken his thigh bone or the femur bone, which is the largest bone in the body, and is still a very serious injury even today with modern medicine. If you're not treated with a femur fracture, you could literally bleed to death in a matter of hours. So he had all of these problems and on top of that, he had a raging case of malaria.
Yeah. It's a contagious disease and it doesn't care if you're the pharaoh or you're merely a slave. If a mosquito bites you and you're infected, there you have it.
Yes. That to me was the most exciting and intriguing part of the study  of the conduct of the royal family. They married within the family, so that King Tut's parents were siblings, and King Tut indeed as you mentioned, married his sister. You know, the pharaohs not only considered themselves royal, but they considered themselves to be deities. And so no matter who you brought home to mother was not likely to be accepted...
...unless she too was royal, of a deity of herself.
But that...
Exactly. That's what I was about to say. It really sets yourself up if you're carrying genetic disorders, particularly recessive disorders, it really sets it up to be transmitted generation to generation.
May not but, you know, the discovery of that tomb was so remarkable in 1922, and, of course, the relics and the riches that were found therein. And it had just captured our imagination. And, of course, he has that great nickname, King Tut. And there's even been songs about him as I recall, the Steve Martin hit in 1978.
Yes. It's a remarkable tool, isn't it, that we can use modern science to better understand the past? And I think that really adds to two really critical questions of these types of studies. Does it really change our view of history, as the King Tut study most definitely does? Or does it help issues of understanding of health and disease today, as the influenza study does? And I think we need to be very careful about answering one or the other or both questions affirmatively before we embark on such studies. But those are very important. For example, the Jefferson study really opens up a whole window of issues of love and intimacy during the era of slavery.
Absolutely. And, you know, this is something that goes across cultures and nationalities and eras, but we tend not to exhume the dead. We tend not to disturb the dead for all sorts of ethical issues.
But particularly when you're talking about the pharaohs, I mean, the reason why King Tut was buried in a tomb that was impossible to get to until several thousand years later was not only did they not want to be disturbed - and there was supposedly a curse laid on those who would disturb King Tut - but these people also felt that it would affect their chances in the afterlife if they were disturbed. So these are things that we have to be very careful about to temper our curiosity.
Well, again, if you look at those two major questions, does it really change our understanding of the Lewis and Clark expedition or does it really help our issues of health and disease? I'm not so sure on that. Similarly, you know, would it really matter if we exhumed Abraham Lincoln to find out if he had an upset stomach the day before he was murdered? I don't think so. But there are other examples where we may have thought about foul play or problems that may have existed that would be very interesting to find out. Now, the real...
Well, for example, Woodrow Wilson's final stroke. How incapacitated was he? But I doubt that you would be able to find that information out on a body that was buried in the 1920s and exhumed in the 2010 era. That's what's so remarkable about the mummies is that they were embalmed in a very specific way that allows us to examine these bodies to this very day.
It was definitively discerned that Akhenaten was his father.
The scholars who did the study have identified the mother as a mummy called KV35YL, which was probably not...
Yeah - but probably not Nefertiti as thought. But this group of scholars is actually doing more studies as we speak to determine that more closely.
Yes. He was a far more prominent pharaoh. He brought about many changes and reforms in ancient Egypt. Yet it's his son who we talk about today.
Yes, that's absolutely true.
Well, it started in the late 1960s. And in 1968, a team of physicians and historians and anthropologists looked at King Tut's mummy and did an old fashion X-ray of his skull and of his skeleton, what used to be called a flap plate X-ray. And they found a fracture to the back of the skull, and they found this fractured leg. And then as doctors are want to do, we all love to make diagnoses whether we're looking at a patient or not. People began to read that paper, and people wrote articles and medical journals and such.
And one good story led to another. And he - it was suggested that he either fell off his horse or he fell off his chariot. Another story suggested that he was kicked to the head by a horse or a beast of burden. And then finally, the best story of all is that there was this nefarious plot to kill him and take over the kingdom.
Yes. Yes, it was. The fracture of the leg though was probably incurred in real life.
Yeah. Well, you know - and I - this was, you know, making fun of armchair pathologists but I'll take a stab at it too. Think about it, when you hurt your own foot you walk sort of funny, and you always injure something else once you injure one part of your body. So he could've been walking in a very difficult way, using canes, and then he could've fallen from, you know, a great height or some steps and broken that thigh bone.
That's a good question because this is such a new field when you think about it, you know? Historians have long enjoyed reading other people's mail but we have not looked at people's bodies all that frequently. But I think there are ways of mirroring institutional review boards that are at every hospital and medical center today as well as museums or museums of antiquities...
...to develop a team of historians, ethicists and so on, experts to decide this issue.
Thank you.

Well, thanks for having me, Ira.
No. I was really amazed. It's only about 176 years old, to be precise. It came around in 1834. And a Cambridge University historian and philosopher of science named William (technical difficulties) coined it.
William Whewell. It's spelled W-H-E-W-E-L-L. And he (technical difficulties) science, and it was an early point in science, at least experimental science, when a lot of the game rules were actually being developed. So he was really quite an umpire and was consulting with people like Darwin and Faraday and a lot of other prominent scientists that we idolize today.
Well, no one really knew what to call a scientist. There was all these different names like cultivators of science and...
Natural philosopher, yes. And so he thought - you know, there's a lot of consilience. In other words, he came up with a lot of jumping together of all fields of science. And we ought to come up with a word that refers to all of them. And so he was actually writing in 1834. He came up with (technical difficulties) terms. The first he considered was savant, or men of learning. But he dismissed that for both being presumptuous and French. He was British, as you recall. He also considered the German term naturforscher, which is really naturalist. But he worried that some might make fun of that term, calling it nature-poker or nature-peeper. And as you just mentioned, natural philosopher was dismissed because it was simply too wide and too lofty a term.
But eventually he came up with, by analogy with artist, that they might (technical difficulties) word scientist. But he had a few qualms about that because it was close to a few other words that were not held in high regard. The first was economist. That may still be true to this day. And the other was atheist, which was a real problematic term back in those days. But he came back to it, nevertheless and he said, you know, I think this is a word, a cultivator of science in general ought to be called a scientist.
And a review of his work in Blackwell's magazine later on that year, in 1840, described it even better. They said Leonardo da Vinci was mentally a seeker after truth. He was a scientist. Well, Correggio, who as you may recall like to play with lightness and (technical difficulties) so the size of body parts, was an asserter of truth. He was an artist.
Well, he was the master of Trinity College at Cambridge, so he had a very good position. He was also a fairly good scientist in his own right. He was a mineralogist. He wrote about geology. He wrote about oceanic tides, mathematics. So he was around.
And he was actually writing a book that became very well known, "The Philosophy of the Inductive Science," at this time, where he was trying to set up - how do you come up with a hypothesis? How do you prove it? Should it be universal? And you know, this all seems, you know, so basic to us today. But (technical difficulties) back in 1830s, 1840s, when real science, as we understand it, was just being laid out.
Well, I'm afraid to tell you because it's so easy. You may not ask me to come back. We want to look up a word, any word in English language. The best place to start is the Oxford English Dictionary because it not only gives you definitions of the word, but it tells you every point in English history where it first appeared.
(Technical difficulties) look it up. But that's the fun of it because you never know what you're going to find, and it's always something good, and you find all these connections. And so finding out about that scientist was a relatively new word led to Whewell's works and then it led to me finding about who his friends were and so on. I even learned that he died, unfortunately, falling off a horse at the age of 71. But it's really just - you know, you start with that Oxford English Dictionary and you're off to the races. And so, you know, it's so much fun looking up things. So I hope the listeners want to do that as well.
Yeah - biologist, geologist.
Well, what's really neat is that it all comes from the word artist. And you know, often there's great art in great science, just as there often is great science in great art. I think it's a really neat coming together (technical difficulties)...
Well, the Internet is wonderful because once you find (technical difficulties) then you can do this on Internet, you know, services as well, then you can find the books without even, God forbid, going to the library at all. You could actually find the books on the Internet. And that's really quite easy too. So you can do it really from your home.
Absolutely. You don't want to go to Bob's really cool word site as opposed to the Oxford English Dictionary. So you want to weigh your sources just as you would between bound covers. You can't necessarily judge a book by its cover, and you can't judge an Internet source by its Web page.
We're working on a few. X-ray is really a fun term. You know, we talk about it, but where did that come from? But what would really be great is if the listeners try to come up with their own words of what they want to find out, and I'll be happy to look them up for you.
But there's so many terms in science that we can find out together, also in medicine as well. You know, the sky is really the limit. But we can find out -also fields about - for example, orthopedics, the bone doctors, you know, doctors of broken bones. That comes from bent bone, which (technical difficulties) born with birth defects.
But one thing leads to another.
Yeah. You know, the technical term for that is neologism, where you combine two different (technical difficulties) to come up with a new meaning. It also, as I recall from my medical school days, is a sign or symptom of schizophrenia, so you have to be careful about the new words that you invent. But, you know, we're doing this all the time when we come up with, you know, blog, Weblog or...
...website or all these kinds of things and...
Yeah. Yeah.
Sure, yeah. I mean, that's what's so great. I mean, linguists always talk about how language changes with each time period, but I (technical difficulties) anywhere more true anywhere than in the world of science and medicine, yes.
Well, you brought up naturalist, for example...
...which was a very popular word. I remember the first time I saw that was reading Dr. Doolittle books. I don't think...
You may recall.
(Technical difficulties) a naturalist. And there's all sorts of medical terms as well or spellings of terms, like surgeon, chirurgal(ph) (technical difficulties) with a C-H-I was the older term for surgical. Physic...
But it (technical difficulties) internist (technical difficulties) specialist. You deal with the internal part of the body.
Yeah. They change too.
And I've learned (technical difficulties) historian never to say anyone was first, because I automatically get a call or an email or a letter saying no (technical difficulties) but you can get an approximation. What the Oxford English Dictionary does in terms of firsts is that they use the first time it appeared in print.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Oh, thanks so much, Ira.

Well, thanks for having me back, Ira.
Well, it's a great story. You know, it takes a lot of history. But, you know, it's the most - one of the most important technologies in the history of science and medicine because it allows doctors to really look into the, you know, lift up the hood and look at the engine while it's still running and not do a lot of invasion.
But really, around 1895, electrons and electricity was all the rage. And there was a physicist, William Roentgen, who was working in Wurzburg, who was playing with a cathode tube. And this particular tube had a thin aluminum window that allowed these electronic beams to escape. And he was playing around in his lab, covering the cathode tube with black cardboard and noticed that there were several beams escaping several feet away to a nearby lab bench, and was hitting a screen that he was also going to use to test against these waves that was made out of barium platinocyanide. And, lo and behold, it glowed in the dark.
It was a eureka-like moment. He locked himself in his laboratory, stayed there for six weeks, except for meals and I imagine to go to the bathroom. And then he found that these newly discovered beams would pass through opaque objects and the effected photographic film he put underneath it. And photographic film was a very common thing in laboratories at that time. It was used to document phenomenon. And first, it was, you know, a set of weights and then a piece of metal and, most famously, it was the bones of his wife's hand.
Yeah, his wife. It was December 22, 1895.
Well, X was a very common thing to - for unknowns. And a lot of scientists were using that for unknown phenomenon. But where that really comes from - Roentgen, of course, was a physicist. He was very skilled in mathematics. And while he may not have been a Cartesian philosopher, he was almost certain to have read Rene Descartes' 1637 text "Geometry," which is a very important geometry text. And it was Descartes who actually introduced the terms X and then followed by Y and Z...
...as unknown quantities to match the symbols of knowns, which would be A, B and C, respectively, in an equation.
Exactly. That was found out a lot later on, that it was found to be in a precise wave length...
...and so on and so forth physically.
Great. Thanks so much.

(History of Medicine, University of Michigan; Director, Center for the History of Medicine) Well, it's great to be back, Ira.
Well, you know, most of our genetic terminology comes from the Greek work genesis, which means origin or creation. But when it comes to genome, we have to give a botanist from the University of Hamburg, his name was Hans Winkler, all the credit. He was writing a textbook on botany in 1920 and he collided the German root word for gene, which is gene, with the Greek suffix ome, which indicates body.
Now, this was a very common concoction back then. You know, there's biome and rhizome for a system of roots. And, of course, chromosomes, which actually means colorful bodies, because they had a propensity to pick up specific dyes that in use, when you are peering that cell through a microscope. But he used the word genome exactly as you defined the entire chromosome set, to specify the material foundations of our species.
And it really caught on particularly after 1953, when Watson and Crick most famously described the structure of DNA. And geneticists, a few years later, began to describe the genomes of several viruses and more complex organisms. And by the late 1980s, and officially in 1990, United States Department of Energy and the National Institute of Health set out to describe the 3.3 billion base pairs that comprise our human genome and its genetic repertoire.
Exactly. Because a map really is a two-dimensional structure. It doesn't really tell you - it may tell you how far something is from something else, but it won't tell you about the hills that you may encounter or the valleys or the climatic conditions and so on. And we really want to know how that chromosome set interacts with the protoplasm. What's around it - the proteins, molecules and so on?
Absolutely. You know, as I said, there were all these wonderful words concocted between 1900 or 1890 and 1930 and biome is the one that we use most commonly.
And zilome, a system of cavities and so on. So it's very common. And now we see prodianomics(ph) and so on. It's still going on.
Now, what's very interesting to me, as a historian, is what will be the future of genome, you know? And it's come to everybody's vocabulary and it's come to represent the Holy Grail of modern medicine. You know, a tool that will help us reveal the cause, cure and even prevention of diseases, but, of course, future assessments of that where we'll rely on the scientific community's ability to figure out such closely guarded secrets.
I'm sure there are. And I'm sure there's a number of words that are ready to be concocted. But the thing about genome is, scientists love precise words. And if you use genetic map - you know, I actually asked a number of people who are in the room, so to speak, when the human genome project was developed. They said, there was no other word we would ever have come to, because there was nothing else quite as precise.
So the great thing about making up words is that you can make them mean whatever you want them to mean.
Well, it started in 1920, but it...
...by the 1950s, it was really catching on. And, certainly, as soon as the structure of the double helix was understood and that different based pairs reacted differently with proteins and molecules and so on, that you needed to know that three dimensionality to predict what the repertoire would be of things that are functional and not so functional, for that matter -scientists adapted it right away.
Thank you.

Hey, Ira.
Well, the secret word is cell.
Yeah. I was wondering what was out there. Yeah. You know, the basic building block of living life, and that's our word today.
Well, you know, given their size, it's not surprising that someone had to come up with a microscope first and look at them. And that task fell to the famed British natural philosopher Robert Hooke. And he was looking at it in the 17th century. He was actually looking at a thinly cut piece of cork. And while he was doing that, he noticed a series of walled pores that were not very deep but they consisted of boxes. And they reminded him of the rooms that monks stayed in. And those were called cellula. Interesting, that word also recalls another Latin word celare, and that means to conceal or hide. And from these origins came the word cell, and it made its literary debut in Hooke's 1665 book "Micrographia," which was a big best-seller at the time.
Well, he was looking at a thinly cut piece of cork as opposed to...
With a microscope, a sort of a set of magnifying glasses. It didn't look quite like the microscopes today. But people were very interested in using lenses to both look at the stars as well as the things that were not visible to the naked eye right in front of them.
Well, because it was so firm, you know? One of the things that advanced later on in the 19th century was how to cut living tissue so that you wouldn't destroy it. And you have a very sharp knife or what's now called a microtome. But you could also introduce artifacts if you didn't cut it correctly, you know, little folds or tears, it wouldn't necessarily represent the living cell.
And so a cork is, you know, kind of wooden and fixed, and so he could use that and cut it very thinly and do his work.
Well, you know, things progress. You know, a few years later, you know, the famed Anton van Leeuwenhoek, a lens maker in Delft, he started looking at his microscope and saw the first living celled organism. It was an algae called spirogyra. He called them little animals.
But it wasn't really for another century and a half that doctors and scientists began looking at these in earnest. And there was a group of early 19th century German scientists, just cracker-jack scientists such as Theodor Schwann and Matthias Schleiden, Robert Remak, and most notably, Rudolph Virchow. And they developed a really novel notion, a revolutionary notion, called cell theory.
Yeah. And then, you know, Rudolph Virchow kept talking about this. And not only talked about normal cellular function which was based on, you know, physical and chemical changes, but also that disease came from results of a deviation from that normal function. So that really started a whole new field of cellular pathology, that we could cure diseases on the cellular level, so to speak, that too, really flew in a smack of a lot of ideas, because the bodily humors...
...were still much in vogue back then.
Oh, thank you.

Hi, Ira. Good afternoon.
Well, keeping with the theme of scary things, it's the word that was - it was and remained scary to a lot of people, the C word, cancer.
Well, it is a constellation. But before that, it was and is a crab. And, you know, when you're starting with medical origins, it's a good bet to start with Hippocrates because he was around very early. And some time about 400 B.C., he was examining many cancer patients with what we'd call today end-stage cancer.
And he applied the Greek word karkinos, which means crab. A lot of explanations, all of them equally wonderful and all of them equally difficult to prove, but why did he use that? And if you examine a tumor, if you actually feel malignant tumor, you'll note that it's hard as a rock. And so some have explained that it reminded him of the hard shell of a crab. But others have said it may remind him of - may have reminded him of the pain that a malignant tumor induces. It's much like the sharp pinch of a crab's claw. And an even better version is that it suggests the tenacity with which, you know, a crab bites you...
...and refuses to let go. And that reminded Hippocrates and other doctors how stubborn these things were to remove.
Right.
Yeah. And then later on, you know - now, Hippocrates, of course, thought tumors were - malignant tumors were caused by something else, an overabundance of black bile, which by the way, doctors for the next thousands (unintelligible) did that. But he was seeing a lot of tumors, as per other doctors of the ancient world, that were malignant. You know, breast and uterine, mouth, skin cancer and so on. And their best advice to those people was to tell them, basically, to go home and die.
About 47 A.D., however, the Greco-Roman philosopher Celsus -he was not a doctor, but he wrote a very important encyclopedia of medicine - he named it cancer, because that's the Latin equivalent of crab and so the word remains to this day.
And then about 100 years later, another very famous doctor named Galen extended that Hippocratic metaphor even further. He was dissecting on a breast tumor. He noticed all the veins and tributaries of malignancy around that mass, and he said it looks just like a crab's legs extending outward from every part of its body.
And so the term really stuck. Even though doctors for many hundreds of years didn't really know what caused it or to distinguish it from many other diseases that also had oozing, non-healing sores and things like that.
Right. In fact, we called doctors to this day, oncologists. And that's another Hippocratic term onkos, is a Greek word, and it simply means masses. The - I think that's probably a lot better word than cancerologist.
And that stuck, as well.
Absolutely. I mean, I remember as a boy, when family members had cancer, they would often - adults would whisper it or call it the C word. And, you know, that's a wonderful change over time piece of evidence there, is that for, you know, thousands of years, cancer was a death sentence for those who were unfortunate enough to get it.
And now, as time has moved on and we've gotten so much better, not only at diagnosing and distinguishing it, but treating it - and there's hundreds of forms of cancer - it's no longer that death sentence. In fact, there are many, you know, millions of people who have survived cancer. So it's become something that we can talk about more openly...
...even though it's still around the crabby word.
Well, that's just a host of things. You know, imbalance of the four humors in the antiquity. Some people in the middle ages in the Renaissance Period thought it was for the sins they committed against their god, that they somehow deserved it.
By the 1850s, pathologists started looking at tumor cells. You know, we talked about the origin of the word cell a few weeks ago. And they were looking at cancer cells and they were fascinated by the fact that they proliferate uncontrollably and they destroy healthy tissue and spread. And so we started thinking about the cellular mechanisms, beginning in the 1850s, 1860s, but it's a really reach zenith in the last 10 or 20 years. And we can only expect better and better information...
...as time goes on.
Okay. Have a good weekend, Ira.

Hello, Ira.
Im great. How are you?
Yeah. Okay.
Well, the word today is physician.
Yeah.
Well, you know, its funny its almost cliche when youre in a crowded theater and someone takes ill, someone will say, is there a doctor in the house. But the word doctor is actually a Latin word and later a French one, meaning anyone whos a teacher - usually of law, theology, philosophy, as well as medicine  for a learned profession.
So the really precise way to call for medical attention would be to ask for a physician.
Yeah. It really  it comes from  we have to start with the Latin word physicum or physicus, and later the French word physic. And all of these words mean treatment or remedy. In around 1200, 1212 to be exact  the Anglo-Normans appropriated these words for English to coin the world physic: P-H-Y-S-I-C.
And even though its rarely used today, physic can still be found in any English dictionary to define medicine or remedy?
Sure. There are some professorships of physic at medical schools to this very day. And  but, you know, it makes sense that from physic, we would get the word physician. And that meant, for centuries, a medical practitioner. They were generally university educated, and they prescribed drugs or remedies - as opposed to their formerly less distinguished colleagues, the surgeons, who work with their hands and then typically with a knife.
Yeah well, they often trained under barbers. I mean, I just had a haircut the other day, but Im glad my barber doesnt blood let anymore. But back then, they did, yeah.
Well, it began to catch on in English as early as the 1200s or the 1500s. And you see it in - the Oxford English Dictionary sites dozens of texts that it appears in, including many plays by William Shakespeare, although he liked both the word physician or doctor to describe his medical men.
But its most famous entry in the English language occurred in 1522. And that was the year that William Tyndale published the first translation of the New Testament from ancient Hebrew, Greek and Latin, into English. And so when he was translating Luke 4:23, he used the word physician instead of a Latin word medici for the famous axiom physician heal thyself. Now, in this particular parable, Jesus returns to Nazareth and he expects to be criticized by his townsmen with this phrase, which was actually a very common Hebrew axiom: for helping others in faraway places but not in ones own home.
And the point of that axiom, of course, is that we should cure ourselves of our fault before we start correcting those of others.
Yeah.
Well, I didnt know quite about the New Testament, but yeah, I had a feeling it had a very interesting history. And it turned out that way, yeah.
Thanks so much.

Hi, Ira. How are you?
Well, it's - represents one of the great miracles of modern medicine: antibiotics.
It is. It's two words. And it really comes from the Greek and Latin roots for against life. Ironically, it wasn't used in the way that we know it, as a drug that you take for an infection, until 1943 when Selman Waksman, who is a very famous microbiologist and himself invented or discovered 20 antibiotics, used that word in that fashion.
Yeah. But before we get to penicillin, I want to take you back about 120 years before 1943 because antibiotics' original meaning -it comes, as I said, from the root for against life - described in opposition to believing in the presence or the possibility of life outside the planet Earth.
A very famous naval commander, Matthew Maury, he was a founder of the U.S. Naval Observatory. And he actually coined the word antibiotic in his 1860 textbook "Physical Geography of the Sea and Its Meteorology." And, you know, you could imagine Maury look at the stars quite a bit through a telescope and a sextant as he attempted to chart the seas and winds and currents. And he argued in his book against extra terrestrial life forms. He said, I incline to the antibiotic hypothesis, so very different meaning.
Yeah.
Now it (unintelligible) a lot of favor in the 1870s and '80s to mean aliens from outer space. But by 1890, it was revised by a French microbiologist named Pierre Vuillemin. And he used it to describe any compound or chemical that was injurious or destructive to living matter, especially microorganisms. But he was really riffing on a much different anti-life concept called antibiosis.
And that was the term that both Louis Pasteur and Robert Koch used in 1877, when they were describing how there were certain airborne bacteria that were floating around their labs and it inhibited the growth of their anthrax cultures. They were studying anthrax individually in order to establish the germ theory. Well, the key, of course, was finding out exactly what was causing that inhibition.
And in the decades that followed, many, many scientists search for such agents, but the catch was many times, most times the substances they use were so toxic that they not only kill the infecting microbes, they also seriously harm the people who are taking the medication. And the great example of that was Dr. Paul Ehrlich's famous magic bullet for syphilis, which was called Salvarsan 606. And professionally, that was just a variant of arsenic, something most of us would not elect to take.
Yeah. That's where the birth really begins. It's 1928 and Alexander Fleming was a bacteriologist at London's St. Mary's Hospital. And he discovered a Penicillium mold of fungus had contaminated his laboratory. But he had this eureka-like moment when he noticed how well that fungus inhibited the growth of specific types of bacteria he was (unintelligible) to culture. And we now know that, you're right, as penicillin...
Oh, I'm sorry to hear that.
Okay. Good to be here.
Okay, thanks. Bye.

Hello, Joe.
I almost want to sing it: Send in the clone. Talk about clones.
Well, we'll get to that. Let's first talk about clone, which literally has its roots in the ground.
It came about in 1903. A plant physiologist at the United States Department of Agriculture named Herbert Webber was working on a term that would describe the process where you take a graft or a cutting or a slip from one plant and then propagate it vegetatively or asexually to grow another plant.
And he was a very literate man, Dr. Webber, and he felt strongly that words should be short, euphonious, phonetically spelled and easily pronounced and different from any other word in the language, so it would not suggest any other meaning than the one that you desired.
And so he thought about it and he chose the Greek word klon. He spelled it C-L-O-N, which literally means a twig or a slip of a plant that's broken off for the purposes of propagation.
And this beat out other terms he was considering like straith, which is a combination of strain and wraith. And two other Greek works, klados and klayla(ph), which are twigs...
He thought it was too clumsy.
Well, it did and it didn't. It, you know, it became a big agricultural term for many years and it really got picked up by science fiction writers, and most famously Aldous Huxley, who wrote "Brave New World." He didn't call it cloning. He called it the Bokanovsky process.
But you may remember he took human embryos, they were split to mass produce 96 identical drones which he called gamma, delta and epsilon drones. And these drones perform menial labor for the more superior, the biologically engineered superior alpha and betas.
There are other books too. Alvin Toffler's best-selling book "Future Shock" in 1970 talked about clones, when he worried about the day that human beings would be able to make carbon copies of themselves. And my personal favorite was Ira Levin's 1976 novel "The Boys From Brazil."
You may recall it was this dastardly plot to clone Adolf Hitler's remains and reproduce and raise dozens of little Fuhrers around the world. It was a huge best-seller and a popular movie.
In "Sleeper." That's it.
Well, thanks for having me, Joe.

Hi, Ira. Happy Earth Day.
Well, the good word today is robot.
Yeah.
Well, you know, we all think of these mechanical beings, you know, clad in metal with its blinking lights and making all sorts of funny sounds. And even some people think about modern robots, which help in modern engineering or even the conduct of surgery. But it's really a new word to the English language.
It was the brainchild of a wonderful Czech playwright, novelist and journalist named Karel Capek. He lived from 1880 to 1938. And he introduced it in 1920 in his hit play "RUR," or "Rossum's Universal Robots."
Well, it comes from an Old Church Slavonic word, rabota, which means servitude of forced labor. The word also has cognates in German, Russian, Polish and Czech. And it's really a product of Central European system of serfdom, where a tenants' rent was paid for in forced labor or service.
And he was writing this play about a company, Rossum's Universal Robots, that was actually using biotechnology. They were mass-producing workers using the latest biology, chemistry and physiology to produce workers who lack nothing but a soul. They couldn't love. They couldn't have feelings. But they could do all the works that humans preferred not to do. And, of course, the company was soon inundated with our orders.
Well, when Capek named these creatures, he first came up with a Latin word labori, for labor. But he worried that it sounded a little bit too bookish, and at the suggestion of his brother, Josef, Capek ultimately opted for roboti, or in English, robots.
Yeah. And, you know, the robots - it's really a wonderful play. The robots do so well, they really kind of take over Earth. I mean, they take over the army. They take over all the work. Even human women can no longer reproduce because they've forgotten how. And so, the robots, after a while, say, hey, enough of this. We're going to take over the world. We're doing all the work. So it's sort of an allegory for a mass revolt of the workers unite and things get really bad. And all but one human being is killed in this play.
The robots realize, oh, no. We've killed everybody who knows how to make robots. So they've actually guaranteed their extinction. And then there's this magical moment where two robots, a male and a female robot, suddenly developed the ability to feel, to love and have human emotions, and they go off into the sunset to make the world anew.
Yes, it is.
Yeah. And, you know, Capek was a very interesting man, an interesting journalist and philosopher. He had - he was a democrat with a little D. He believed in democracy. And, you know, when he wrote this in 1920, there was the - the Soviet Union had started recently with communism, and there was also the World War I that had many people blamed on capitalism and...
He was, indeed. And he was a very active opponent of Hitler, and wrote about it. And he was enemy number two on the Gestapo list. And he died in 1938 at the age of 48 of flu, just a few moments before the Gestapo had caught up with him. So he frustrated Hitler (unintelligible).
Well, thank you.
I hope so.

Good afternoon, Ira.
Well, it really was a beloved literary character that was created by an eminent physician, poet and professor named Hieronymus Fracastorius. And he did this in 1530 when he wrote an epic poem called "Syphilis Sive Morbus Gallicus" or what's also known as "Syphilis or the French Disease." And he wrote a poem about this mythical shepherd named Syphilis who rejected and then insulted the sun god. And in response, the deity struck him down with the dreaded malady, and that's where the name comes from.
Yeah.
It recently came to light. A historian named Susan Reverby at Wellesley College was the one who uncovered that. She was looking at papers of a man named John Cutler who was the physician in charge of that. He later became associated with another infamous syphilis study, the Tuskegee study.
But in this experiment that was done between 1946 and 1948, there were, you know, hundreds, 700 Guatemalans - prison inmates, soldiers and mental patients - who were deliberately inoculated with syphilis.
Shocking, under any circumstances to a 21st century observer, but especially so because of the years, because 1946 is also the year when penicillin is widely available. And so it's on so many levels unethical and problematic, and that only makes it more so.
And so when this was uncovered in October - last fall, you know, a very different thing happened with the response of, say, Tuskegee or earlier scandals is that the Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, and then President Obama immediately apologized on behalf of the United States for such a study. And the president ordered a full commission investigation by the National Bioethics Commission, the presidential commission on bioethics, which should report of their findings. They had a charge of nine months and they started in January of this year. So we should expect something from - a lot more fully about this in September.
One of the great questions of the history of medicine. And you could separate the world of historians of medicine to two fronts: those who believe Christopher Columbus and his band of sailors went to Hispaniola, the Dominican Republic and Haiti today, where they not only discovered but probably raped and pillaged and brought back that infection of syphilis with them from the New World to the Old World.
Now, there are some interesting chronology because right - a few years after that voyage, it starts breaking out in places like Italy and Spain and all across Europe, in France and so on. And a lot of - you can trace a lot of people to the Columbian travels, discovery.
And the syphilis they were seeing back then were incredibly acute and abrupt and gross and deadly in a very short period of time in quite distinction to the modern stage definition that was just discussed. And so these people developed serious skin lesions that were very gross to look at, as well as had rather rapid death. And so this was the pandemic, if you will, of certainly Fracastorius' this time, but all throughout the Renaissance.
You know, it has always a remained its ugliness in its virulence. But I think if you're using these - and their narrative descriptions. We don't have blood tests or DNA evidence or anything we would use. Whereas my old pathology professor would always say, get the tissue before you make the diagnosis. But it sounds like these original cases in the late 1490s and all throughout the 1500s, particularly the early years, were very - more severe or abrupt and could have been caused by a different organism or a combination of organisms. We just don't know.
And that's right, the other part of that syphilis equation, in terms of Columbus, is the pre-Columbian theory, that it was not, you know, a new disease at all. So, you know, there are just so many mysteries about this disease -past and present and future.
Well, you know, you can always round up the usual suspects in Renaissance medicine; bleeding is a big one, but also anything else that could change what were construed as the problem with the four humors. So they might do some cupping, which is using these hot cups to draw out negative humors. They might have given you a medics or purgatives. But the treatment was, you know, limited at best, and people who got sick generally died.
But, you know, up until 1940s, in the United States, say in 1939, 64,000 Americans died of syphilis. So it was a serious disease that killed a lot of people well up to the middle of the 20th century.
Well, that's one approach. It's ironic, though, we're talking about we don't talk enough about it. In 1934, Franklin Roosevelt's Surgeon General, Thomas Parran, was set to go on CBS and talk about syphilis, and they would not allow him to say that word over the radio in that era. So there's all sorts of discomfort that we have in our past and present about talking about it. But you're right, there's lots of famous people.
You know, Scott Joplin, the ragtime king, died of it, Al Capone, Toulouse-Lautrec. Probably, the most notorious was Guy de Maupassant, the great French writer and I would say derelict, who not only contracted syphilis but said, at last, I have the real thing, and then went on to have sex with six prostitutes in front of his friends. So lots of very irreverent behavior among some of the famous victims of this terrible disease.
Absolutely. It's such a wonderful poem. But here's the part where the real action happens.
(Reading) The all-seeing sun no longer could sustain these practices, but with enraged disdain darts forth such pestilential malignant beams, as shed infection on air, earth and streams. From whence this malady it's birth received. And first, the offending syphilis was grieved. Who raised forbidden Altars on the hill, and victim's blood with impious hands did spill. He first wore buboes, dreadful to the sight, first felt strange pains and sleepless past the night. From him, the malady received its name.
Or the sun god may have done that, I'm not sure. I'm going to respect him.
Have a nice weekend, Ira.

Hi, Ira. How are you?
Well, the word today is chemistry.
We have...
We do. We do. You know, there's a lot - we've all taken chemistry in high school, and some of us have even taken it in college. But there's a great of controversy. Did it come from ancient Egypt or from ancient Greece? Now some have claimed that there's an Egyptian origin. Back in 300 A.D., a Roman emperor, Diocletian, decreed that the burning all of Egyptian writings that outline the transmutation of gold into silver. And based on this edict, as well as several hieroglyphic inscriptions, people such as Plutarch in 100 A.D. insisted that the root word chem was derived from the name of ancient Egypt, which was called the land of chem, or alchemia. And that really means rich black soil, the type of soil that flourished near the banks of the Nile, and it was prized for its fertility as opposed to the sand of the surrounding desert.
But the Oxford English Dictionary, on the other hand, declares that the word is more likely the child of Greek roots, chemia, which means pouring or infusion. And the ancient Greeks applied this term to what we would call pharmaceutical chemistry. The physicians would extract juices or infusions of plants for medicinal purposes. Now, for many centuries, chemistry and alchemy were practically interchangeable for Egyptians, Persians, Greeks, Romans and later, Europeans, well into the 16th century. And the goal was to discover or create a mythical philosopher's stone that could turn base metals into gold and silver and also act as an elixir that would magically cure all of one's ills and grant us eternal youth.
But there was also a wonderful set of philosophies attached to alchemy that would concern your own transformation into a virtuous person. And that continued all the way into the psychoanalytic writings of Carl Jung. I should mention, by the way, that the original "Harry Potter" book, the first one, in keeping with the alchemical theme, was called "Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone." But despite its runaway success in Great Britain, the U.S. publisher changed it to "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone" because they believed that no American child would buy a book containing the word philosopher.
But later on, in the 17th century on, a great many natural philosophers and alchemists, including Robert Boyle, began to rethink the field, and they wanted to apply physical methods to study matter. And in fact, Robert Boyle wrote a 1661 treatice called "The Sceptical Chymist," and he renamed the field chemistry. And he's known for a lot of things, best known for Boyle's Law, the universally proportional relationship between the absolute pressure and volume of gas.
And as the centuries proceeded, there was a whole host of scientific revolutionaries, you know, Lavoisier, John Dalton, many others. And they developed what we know now as modern chemistry, which is a quantitative and reproducible framework for understanding not only the composition of matter, but also how matter can change forms by means of chemical reactions.
So it's been some time since we've discovered the teachings of alchemy and the philosopher's stone and all that wonderful mysticism about transforming not only lead into gold but ourselves, unless that is, you're a graduate of the prestigious Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. It's still taught there, I'm told.
Well, thanks for having me.
You too. Have a safe one.
OK.

Hello, Ira.
The word today is epilepsy.
A very odd word. It's - as we know today, of course, it's an abnormal firing of neurons in the brain that leads to some abnormal movements of one part of the body or another, depending on what part of the brain is affected. But for a long time, that disease was terribly feared, and many people thought it was a sacred disease, that somehow people were struck by either a god or a devil to have this uncontrollable movement. And it's very frightening to watch, actually, and so people were very nervous when they saw other people seize.
He did. You could always rely on Hippocrates. You know, there is a Greek - word - there's always, there's many Greek words, actually.
But this one, epilambanem - in len, there's epilepsia - and that literally means to seize or to be taken hold of. And Hippocrates wrote a wonderful treatise called "On the Sacred Diseases." And he said, you know, he described epilepsy to a T because he was such a good observer, but he said this disease is no more sacred than any other disease.
It's affecting some part of the brain, and he explained it in the way he understood the body in terms of four bodily humors and so on. But he was the first one to actually strike out against it being a part of evil or doing bad or a weakness of character or something like that. And he did not like that name. Later on, it became the falling sickness, and that's what it was called for millennia. And, really, even in the English language, for a long time it was referred to as the falling sickness, but that all changed around 1578.
Well, yeah. I mean, now epilepsy, we know, is really many disorders...
...40 or 50 disorders that include seizures. But when people suffered from what used to be called grand mal seizures or, you know, generalized seizures, they would often fall down. And it struck them, and they fell down or they started seizing. And it was not a bad name. But Henry Lyte in 1578 - he was a famous British botanist - translated another botanist book called "Cruydeboeck" by Rembert Dodoens. He was a Flemish botanist. And there were some recipes of how to treat seizures in there. And Lyte preferred the word epilepsy to falling sickness, and so he used that translation. But, you know, it took another couple of decades.
And it wasn't - of course, you know, if you talk about the Greeks and the Bible, then you have to have Shakespeare. Shakespeare described epilepsy in 1599 in his famous play "Julius Caesar." Now, Julius Caesar did have epilepsy, and Cassius describes him as having, quote, "the falling sickness." But what's really neat is, about a few years later in 1603, in "Othello," Shakespeare describes him as raging and foaming as if he has fallen into epilepsy. And, again, the following year in 1604, in "King Lear," Kent talks to Oswald and says, a plague upon your epileptic visage. That would be a good thing in the playground to say to someone you don't like. But after that, epilepsy really took hold, and it became the way we describe this falling sickness.
Yeah, epilepsy, or at least seizures. You know, there was Julius Caesar, Napoleon, Dostoyevsky, my favorite - one of my favorite novelists. And, in fact, he gave his character Raskolnikov in "Crime and Punishment" epilepsy, as well. And probably the most humorous if you're an Abbott and Costello fan, Bud Abbott had epilepsy.
Yeah. He was not on first when it came to that problem.
Well, it depends on what type of epilepsy you have and what part of the brain has been affected. There are a number of causes. For example, if you injure your brain, say you hit your head against something or - and you caused some scarring of the brain tissue, that could be a cause. But so, too, can tumors or metabolic disorders. There are a number of causes that cause the syndrome of epilepsy.
Well, yeah, it is. I mean, you know, you start with the Oxford English Dictionary, as I always do, and then you work your way back, and then you start finding out who these people are. So, Hippocrates is easy, and I had known...
..."On the Sacred Diseases" for my days in graduate school. But I got to meet Henry Lyte along the way, and it's always a great excuse to read Shakespeare.
He did. And there's so many, I mean, he was such a wonderful observer of human nature and things that affected human beings. And so there's lots of medicine and science to be described in the plays of Shakespeare.
Well, thank you, Ira.
Yeah. We'll see who's on first then, huh?

Hi, Ira. How are you?
Well, it's a great one. It's the Bunsen burner.
And we all know what it is. It's the iconic symbol of high school chemistry. But how many people know who Bunsen was?
And he was a brilliant chemist, Robert Bunsen was his name. And he was a graduate of the University of Gottingen where his father was the chief librarian. But he actually created with some laboratory assistants the Bunsen burner or the gas burner in 1855. Now, chemistry - these chemists have arguing for years over who deserves the credit. Bunsen and a colleague named Henry Roscoe actually wrote it up in 1857.
But, you know, there were prototypical gas burners even before that, from the 1820s on. But those earlier forms used to produce diffuse and flickering light, and they also would - they were very flammable, no pun intended, and if you didn't put a metal wire over - a mesh, the flames would get all over the place, but that introduced artifactual colors and soot and all other things like that.
Pretty much. I mean, there's been a few, you know, tweaks here and there. But, you know, it's kind of neat. You know, all great laboratory equipment is the result of doing experiments. And Bunsen and his colleagues were trying to look at the spectral analysis of elements and compounds. They had a theory that each compound or element had a fingerprint if you lit it, if you burned it. And you could measure that through a prism.
So that was really novel, but they didn't have a good source of heat to do that. These earlier flames would just be, you know, not sufficient. And they figured this out one day when they - I'm sure you remember doing this in eighth grade - they burned a piece of magnesium. You remember that?
I can still see that bright light, that bright white light. And then they said, well, maybe other compounds have this as well. So they needed the right type of heat source. And you know, the great unsung heroes of science, I think, are the apparatus beakers, you know, before there, you know, Erlenmeyer flasks. Someone had to blow those and make them. And the same thing with the Bunsen burner was a very neat guy named Peter Desaga. And this - he toyed with the length of the tube and the width of the tube so that created a colorless, sootless flame. It was very hot. It didn't flicker, and it didn't need that wire mesh, so it didn't introduce any artifactual colors.
Thanks a lot, Ira.

Good afternoon, Ira.
That we do. It's my favorite plate. It's the Petri dish.
Yeah. Well, it was designed by a guy named Petri - Julius Richard Petri, to be exact. He was a military physician. He worked for the German army. And in 1877, he found himself assigned to the Imperial Health Office in Berlin, which was a laboratory ran by Robert Koch. Now, Robert Koch was the Kaiser of bacteriology. He discovered the cause of cholera and tuberculosis and anthrax. So it was sort of like being a bush leaguer suddenly called up to play short stop for the Yankees.
And in order for Koch to make his discoveries, he had to figure out how to grow not only lots of bacteria, but grow them in a reliable, pure culture technique. And that was a big problem, because a lot of the earlier methods were opened to the air. And, you know, a lot of other germs would join on to the media and grow. And you wouldn't really know what you were dealing with. Some were grown in test tubes. Some were grown in liquor glasses. But...
It does, doesn't it? But one of the earlier ways to prevent things from getting in, we - the bacteriology term is schmutz, by the way. But one way to get it from coming in...
...was to put a heavy glass bell jar on a glass plate that had some gelatin with bacteria growing. But that was very cumbersome. You know, a bell jar is very heavy, and you're manipulating with one hand. And you've got to get to the microscope and so and so.
No, you can't. And that's where Petri comes in. He actually designed - familiar to every one who's listening - that glass, flat dish with a cover that fits right over it. And that was terrific, because not only could you keep contaminants from getting in, but you could slide it under the microscope, put it right on the stage of the microscope and view your specimens.
Not really. I mean, it's - some are made out of glass, some are made out of polyacrylic or plastic, but it's essentially the same as when Petri wrote his only - it's a 300-word paper that he wrote describing the plating technique.
Right. And, you know, we don't really always know who Petri is. But we do know what a Petri dish is, don't we?
Happy Holiday to you, Ira.
