Good morning.
No, I didn't know that.
Well, I don't know enough about the facts to really have an      opinion on what the state's doing, but I will say this.  There's a huge      amount of money at stake, and those insurance policies did have      specifications. Obviously there's going to then be struggle between      claimants and the insurance companies each trying to do the best for      themselves in the circumstances.  My instinct is that the state should      stay out of that and that courts should interpret those contracts when      disputes arise.  There could be many billions of dollars involved for the      insurance companies, but the politics of the situation probably are going      to militate in favor of the politicians trying to get as much for the      people as they can.
Well, let me just say this.  I don't want to argue.  I      mean, I want those people to get benefits, too.  The question is whether      or not it's the insurance companies that are responsible to give them,      outside of the terms of contracts, or whether it's the general public who      ought to pay the freight if we want to see people get, you know,      benefits.
Yeah.
I don't know.  My instinct is probably in case like that,      the guy has a claim, you know.  But what--all cases are not the same, and      that's why I think courts probably ought to adjudicate these disputes as      opposed to, you know, a kind of blanket resolution being imposed on all      the cases by a statute.
Yeah, that's my impression.  I'm not by any means an expert      on the media market, but my sense is that the news is having a hard time      getting the resources inside these corporations that it needs to be done      properly across the board.  I wish that we had greater infrastructure to      bring a kind of sympathetic and humane portrayal of the lives of      African-Americans in the face of this disaster and otherwise into the      American media stream, because it's desperately needed to counter the      stigmatizing and stereotyping images and conceptions that are being      projected otherwise.  I hope that BET pulls its weight in that regard.
Well, this is extremely interesting.  I did take note of      the results in that poll.  At the personal level, people thinking about      going back, I guess the question's going to be:  Go back to what exactly?      The communities that may have nurtured them before the disaster are no      longer there.  There aren't jobs, therefore then, and so forth.  On the      other hand, if you think about the politics of the siting of public      housing, in any big city in the United States, it's always extremely      contentious.  There's a reason why our big cities are dramatically      segregated by race and class.  And anyplace that large numbers of people      from the 9th Ward and other such communities in New Orleans are settled      are going to end up being different places than they had been before      those newcomers came.  The lines outside the gun shops in Baton Rouge      tell us something about the kind of backlash and the kind of politics      that we're going to be seeing played out in these communities.
I think this is a fundamental question.  I agree very much      with what Jeff said.  In my mind, the principle here has to be that this      is not just about property.  This is also about people and about their      relationships and their communities.  And the entitlement here is not      just the ownership of pieces of land or real estate, but it's also the      stake that individuals had in the city by virtue of having been a part of      the city.  So the politics of this has to be shaped by a conception in      New Orleans which is not just putting stuff back on the ground, but it's      also restoring--you know, it's also restoring the community and, if you      like, the kind of spiritual life of the city and the role that poor black      people played in the reality of New Orleans has somehow to be reflected.      And it's not going to be reflected if all you're talking about is who      owned what and who's going to be compensated for what they owned, because      those people didn't own that much.
Thank you.

You know it sounds an awful lot like desperation to me. They have to say something, they're taking a terrible political beating over this and what with all the other things that have gone wrong. And when you just step back and take the toll of this horrible fiasco, which has been this intervention in Iraq: our Constitution is frayed, our army is overstretched, our reputation in the world has been tarnished. Xenophobia has been promoted at home. This has been a disaster and I think they're trying to manage the problem as best they can, but unfortunately, the circumstances on the ground militate in favor of a very negative outcome for us over there.
Oh, I'm doing it. Oh I'm doing it.
Look, this is too easy to ridicule, I think making prudent preparations for the possibility of an outbreak is sort of the equivalent of getting out of New Orleans when they tell you that the hurricane is coming. We don't want to wait until the last minute to all rush down to the local market and try to fill up our pantry because then the shelves are going to be bare.
You know, there is something that we can do, I grant you that it really sounds ridiculous and why under the bed, why not the basement or the closet? But the idea that we might begin to get ourselves ready if we're not already for the need to stay indoors for a protracted period of time because of some pandemic, is a reasonable thing, it seems to me.
MS. SHIPP: But you know what...
Maybe manhand, yeah...
Let's talk about that...
Perhaps and perhaps it's a bit of a culture war inside of the South Park TV show.
That's a possibility as well, but I'm inclined to think that it's a great gift of our culture that we are able to engage in this kind of ridicule, criticism, joking, humor. It's a way of letting of steam, it's a way of not taking things too seriously. Everybody doesn't share the same religious beliefs, it's true that religious beliefs should be respected, but it's also true that their pluralistic.
And for us to be able to get along in civil society with each other, when we have different pluralistic beliefs, requires a certain amount of deference and respect, but it also requires a certain amount of lightening up and being able to laugh at yourself when people are not being invidious or malicious in what they're doing.
So I don't really se a problem.
Yeah, I think this is right, both what John and E.R. have said. That is: security is necessary, let's face it, but that the real issue here is a two-track employment thing where the private company comes in and at $750.00 a day to employ these people and they thing that's a low rate, whereas the full- time guards were making 30 grand a year down there and it has been pointed out some have been laid off.
I don't know all the logistical details. There's also the issue of whether or not FEMA would provide money to the parish that it could use in that way, but the problem is going to be resentment within the ranks of people who are being paid on very different tracks to do basically the same job.
Thank you.

Right.
Well, that is the question. I think the mayor is being a bit, sort of, lacking in leadership in not recognizing the need to coordinate the actions of all the parties involved here. And to ensure that people, who don't have otherwise a stake at the table, get represented. The people who were living in rental apartments, for example, who were flooded out, don't have any way really to get back in.
And in general, these low-income areas, which might not be viable environmentally, nevertheless housed an important part of the city's population and culture. And a way needs to be found to give those people a seat at the table so that they can participate in the reconstruction of New Orleans.
Well, you know, I think Michael Meyers is right. This is a failed policy. We're spending $150 billion dollars a year. We have squandered our good offices with governments around the world. We've inflamed the enemy, as the president is fond of referring to this discontent in the Islamic world. This has been a failed policy.
And E.R. is right. The president is sticking with it. He is betting the farm on this failed policy and I think the responsibility now falls to the American people who get to go to the polls in November to express ourselves, the scales having finally fallen from our eyes, in opposition to this government and the party that is running it. This is a failed policy, no good for the American people, and we need to say so in no uncertain terms at the polls this November.
Yeah.
Well, I think you should.
I mean, I think the free speech argument here is bogus. I mean, the spokesman for the Times is quoted in the newspaper as saying, in accepting this advertisement we do not endorse the politics, trade practices or actions of the country or the character of its leaders. Perhaps, but you do further their ends. Can they not know that? It's impossible that they cannot know that.
Yeah, well, I think we have a case of profiling here of, you know, homosexual profiling and it's subject to all the criticism that you would make of racial profiling or anything else. I think Michael hit on the key point though, you need to have reliable ways of testing the blood supply, you can't be basing the security of the blood supply on people's answers to these kinds of questions. So I think that's the key thing.

No, I don't. I think we have to keep our eye on the ball here. I mean, you know, there's a distinction between politics, which is about how the country's going to be governed, what the major policies are going to be, are we going to have healthcare for people who need it, are taxes going to be cut or are they going to be raised to provide social benefits and the rest.
And then there's being proud of an African-American who has made it in life. You know, Condoleezza Rice, God bless her, or Michael Steele for that matter. What the Republican Party stands for, all you have to do is look at their coalition. Look how they get themselves elected around the country.
Gun lobbies, anti-tax, Christian right. Not that African-Americans are not Christians, but I'm saying the policies that they have been following at the national and at the local level have definitely been deleterious to the interests of African-American people.
I'm talking about the death penalty. Who gets executed in this country? The jails are overflowing of young black men in this country. We've basically given up on helping people in terms of any kind of long-term commitment to income support. Those are the issues that really matter.
And from African-Americans there can be no doubt but that ideology of the Republican Party is not in our interest. And therefore when some black Republicans get the assignment of ginning up the black vote for their candidates, they can't do anything else but make these silly appeals to some kind of racial loyalty, which really hasn't got anything to do with anybody's bottom line.
Well, you know, I'm glad you asked me that. I mean even though the show is not about me. But I'll just take this moment to say...
No. I mean I was on this moral trip. It was about unwed babies and it was about black-on-black crime, and it was about how come our kids can't study harder and why can't we help ourselves. Well, of course, we can help ourselves and that's true. But that, in my past I think, I exaggerated way out of proportion relative to the kinds of things that I was just saying, which is what politics about.
And the problem here is that the moral conversation is really a private, African-American, communal, civic kind of conversation. It should be in the church basement. In front of a microphone talking to America we should be talking about our common public life. And I just woke up to that some time in the mid-1990s.
And look at what these conservatives and neoconservatives have wrought. I mean I'm lucky I jumped the ship before these guys sailed off to Iraq.
We did?
Right.
You planted a seed, Mary.
Well, no, it's not a popularity contest. The United States is unpopular in the world in many places because of the things that we are doing in the world in many places.
The war in Iraq is unpopular in many places in the world. It looks like unilateral, high-handed preemption, which is what it was. The war in Lebanon is unpopular in many places in the world. Our un-variable support for Israel, up and down the line, is unpopular in many places in the world where people see the plight of the Palestinians.
So while Hugo Chavez was vituperative and incendiary, and disrespectful in the way in which he referred to the president of the United States, he nevertheless was articulating a critique which is very widely held by peoples in the world. And the question is whether or not we're just going to be so arrogant that we're not going to listen to that critique and try to think about what we're doing as a country that is really ultimately redounding against our interests by alienating people who really ought to be our allies in what we need to accomplish together in this world.

Indeed. You know, there's nothing pure about democracy. I mean the vote doesn't speak for itself. There's so many points of discretion. There's so many ways in which the person with the wrong intent can mess around with the process.
So, you know, I'm concerned. That 2000 election where George Bush was basically elected president by the Supreme Court, where the governor and secretary of state in the state of Florida had a lot to do with who became the next president of the United States. It really dealt a blow - I'm not blaming anybody. I'm just making the observation to the sense of trust that Americans can have in, you know, in our electoral processes.
When John Kerry decided to concede the election in 2004 rather than challenge in Ohio - as he might have done along many different dimensions, including the fact that in black communities there didn't seem to be as many voting machines and the lines were longer and so forth, and that really suppressed the black vote, which might have helped Kerry - when he decided not to challenge, he did us all a favor. But we're not out of the woods by any means.
Well, I don't know what one means by address. If you're running a company or any office, you want to have, you know, good morale and you want to have a well functioning workplace. So a decent manager will do the things that are necessary to do in order to achieve that objective.
Sometimes, quote, “bullying,” close quote, might be productive and effective, no? I mean sometimes - I'm not saying, I'm not, you know, advocating hurting people's feelings, but I'm saying being a demanding boss can easily be interpreted by a slacking worker as bullying. I'm not sure what one wants to do about this other than to, you know, to whine, as Michael would say.
It's a very difficult problem. You know, the rule of law, the sanctity of contract, the mutual expectation that public officials are actually going to do their jobs and are not for sale, these are hard won and precious qualities in a society.
Note that the United States of America is not at the top of that list. I mean, you know, physician, heal thy self one might say. Before we go around trying to teach other countries about good governance, we might do something about those earmarks that are for sale and those lobbyists on K Street, et cetera, et cetera.
But I just want to say, it's - everybody knows that this is one of the barriers to getting business to come in, to reviving developing economies in many places in the world. But it's really hard to turn it around once you've sunk down into a culture where everybody expects that pretty much anything goes.
It's true.
Oh, I think it's greed. I think we have to look…
…beyond politics. No, no. Hold on. I mean somebody was just charged with the backdating of these stock options for executive compensation so that, you know, they could basically steal from other stockholders in the corporation and pad their own pockets. These are people who already are being paid in the eight figures in terms of salary who still don't have enough. I mean I think…
…I think that the root of the thing is greed. So, you know.
Exactly.
You're welcome.
