Thank you, Juan.
Well, as we all know, of course, people on both the left      and the right who are in experts in the legal field have said that none      of us should interpret John Roberts' writings from that era--from the      Reagan and the first Bush era--as any kind of a certain predictor of how      he might vote or what issues--what kinds of opinions he might issue on      some of these same matters if he were to be confirmed to the Supreme      Court.  He was a senior legal adviser to Ronald Reagan, and he also was a      senior aide to--in the first Bush administration, and he served his      clients.  He knew what his clients wanted, what they were looking for,      and he served them and served them well. But I think it would be a      mistake in anybody's part to assume that because he made those      pronouncements in his writings back in the 1980s that that represents in      any way an idea of what he might do now as a member of the US Supreme      Court.
I would not be surprised if 10 or more Democrats voted for      John Roberts.  I think that a number of Democrats are comfortable with      him, and it's fair to say that a number of them are going to support him      when the confirmation comes up.
It would be wonderful to see Barack Obama support John      Roberts.
Well, Kilpatrick is the one that has the harder road to      tow at this point.  Of course, if he had been the top finisher in the      non-partisan contest this past Tuesday, there wouldn't be much to worry      about, but Hendrix really did out outpoint him pretty significantly.  And      the fact that Kilpatrick, as the sitting mayor, came in second place      because of all the scandals that plagued his first term, it's possible      that he could have trouble raising money, which could make it even more      difficult for him to overcome Hendrix and Hendrix's momentum.
I think she's got some sort of advantages.  Obviously the      issue will be there that she was the one that certified President Bush as      the state's winner back in 2000, but that's just one issue, and it's a      small issue, and it's not probably going to be a sticking issue      ultimately.  This is somebody who has managed to win two terms to the US      Congress, so she does she have a base with regards to her congressional      district.  And so she's known nationally.  She has the ability to raise      money outside of Florida, which is a helpful thing.  She's going to need      lots of money to be competitive and to overcome Nelson, but she can do      it.  I think--I don't think that the story's yet out.  I think that if      she's able to raise the needed funds, that she'll be very, very      competitive.

I don't think there's any sense of panic.  Obviously,      there's--it's not a fun day when you have these kinds of issues to      contend with.  I think every one of the people that you've talked about      expects to be cleared of any charges that have been leveled against them.      And the hope is that once these charges have cleared that we can carry      on with the agenda of this party and this president.
Well, she is an unknown in some regards.  I mean, she's      somebody who hasn't before served on the bench, so there's no judicial      record as such to examine.  At the same time, she's somebody who the      president has, I think, worked hard to persuade conservatives that thinks      the way he does.  And I think everybody knows how the president thinks      about, certainly, a lot of the key issues.  And also, the president has      said again and again and again that the kinds of people that he's      nominating to be his Supreme Court nominees are people who are impartial      umpires, people who don't have to pass some kind of a litmus test; people      who would strictly construct or interpret the Constitution of the United      States.
I haven't heard yet so much from black conservatives.  Now      the word is beginning to filter down from a number of white conservatives      that they support Harriet Miers.  And maybe one of the reasons why      Senator Harry Reid supports her is because he happens to be one of the      few pro-life Democrats in the US Senate and that may be an indication of      where she stands on that issue, of course, as somebody who's not been a      judge in the past.
Clearly, she's somebody who mirrors the conservative philosophy of this      president, and if that's the case, she ought to be fine with a lot of      conservatives around the country.
Thanks so much, Juan.

Nice      to be here, Juan.
Well, it seemed to me that the president was more      interested in doing the right thing, which is appointing the best person      for that position and somebody who it would be very, very hard for people      on either side of the aisle to dispute.  Samuel Alito is that kind of a      candidate, and obviously there are lots of great candidates--Hispanic      candidates, African-American candidates, male candidates, female      candidates--a lot of outstanding people out there that this president      could have chosen.  He made a great pick, however, in Samuel Alito, and      I'm pleased with it.
Well, it's possible that Scooter Libby could strike a plea      deal.  I mean, he his easily a very, very busy guy.  And, truth be told,      with any busy official in the White House, especially any chief of staff      to a vice president or to a US president--with all the stuff that they      have coming at them--I know that I was a staffer at the White House, and      I was not nearly as busy as a chief of staff or a deputy chief of staff,      and my plate was full.  I couldn't return all the phone calls that I had,      and it's very, very possible that Scooter Libby could have in a      non-malicious way been mistaken about when it is he first learned of      Valerie Plame's name.
I'm sure not!
I think Senator Frist described it accurately, which is      that it's a kind of a counterpunch strategy, which is to say that they      have not really put forward to the American people an agenda of their      own, saying, `These are our values, these are the things about which we      care deeply, and this is where we hope to head.'  What they've chosen to      do instead is to kind of counterpunch, to try to see wherever it is they      suppose Republicans may be weak and then to try to seize upon that      perception of weakness to make a case to America against Republicans.
Thank you so much.

Thanks.
Very, very comfortable.  Very, very good.  I think he gave      a very, very good speech and it was very honest.  He talked about some of      the difficulties of being there, the fact that it's not unusual for us to      see these images on the news at night of some of the work of the      insurgents and that people will die and that people have already--a      number of brave Americans have already paid the ultimate price for      sacrifice there in Iraq.  But I think he made some wonderful points.  He      talked about the defeatists, those who would wish to cut and run, and he      also talked about the tremendous progress that we're making there in      Iraq.  The fact that--despite the fact that there has been some faulty      information, we are making tremendous progress.  The coalition is winning      and that the votes that took place last week demonstrate that Iraqis want      freedom in their country, they want democracy and that this is ultimately      a very, very good thing not only for Iraq but for that part of the world      and for the US.
Well, I think he wants to make sure that before we leave      that the Iraqis are able to maintain the peace that we've fought so hard      to bring them.  And I think that's happening and the president talked      about that in his speech last night.  It's important that we not cut and      run, which is what some of the defeatists, as he called them, are saying,      that because of the fact that there have been all these sad images in the      news media of people dying so tragically that now it's time to just get      out right away and leave behind whatever we've got there.  Well, that      wouldn't be fair.  That wouldn't be fulfilling our promise to the Iraqi      people.  And that certainly would be minimizing the sacrifice of all the      people who've gone before who've given their lives for the sake of      freedom and democracy in Iraq.  I think the president set out in very      clear terms what we're trying to do, about helping the Iraqi government      establish the institutions that they need to be a--to have a unified and      lasting democracy and to make sure that all of Iraq's people--and they      have different groups as you know--are included and represented.
Well, for the most part, I think that folks      know--certainly if the Scriptures are the authoritative book for the      people in my congregation, they know that there's both an Old Testament      and a New Testament and war is nothing new to our world, nothing new to      people.  There are have been wars and conflicts since the beginning of      time, and sadly, people have given their lives in war for the sake of      others.  And this, of course, is a very, very difficult thing to      comprehend, to understand, to reconcile for all people, certainly for      people of faith.  But, nonetheless, I'm encouraged every single time I      hear of brave American men and women of different ethnicities talking      about the importance of being there, the importance of the mission.      We've got a number of people who have been involved in the military      service and who have spent time in Afghanistan and Iraq and who say that      we're not only winning but we're doing the right thing--they're there for      the right reason and that what's happening is a good thing.  And the      biggest challenge that a lot of military people who are there have is      wondering why more American people don't support the mission, especially      since they're there on the ground seeing what's going on.
Well, I think the president spoke well to all Americans      and he made some, I think, very good points, that one thing that to      retreat before victory would be an act of recklessness and he said, `You      know, I'm not going to allow that.' And then also he made a very, very      strong point about the war against terror, which is to say that to--`We      don't create terrorism by fighting the terrorists; we invite terrorism,      however, by ignoring them.' And ultimately for African-Americans, for      everybody in this country, terror is something that visits all of us,      that has already visited all of us.  When the terrorists struck the World      Trade towers on September 11th, they killed a lot of people.  They killed      a lot of Americans.  They were African-Americans. They were white.  They      were brown.  They were of different ethnicities, but, nonetheless,      Americans all.  And even some folks who weren't Americans were killed in      that terrorist attack.  We fight an enemy who is not easily identifiable      and the terrorists, as I've said many times in the past, aren't walking      around with easily identified uniforms with a little key on them saying      that we're terrorists.
Thank you.

Thanks, Juan.
Well, for me, the challenge is to suppose that if I was      being nominated by the president of the United States for--to hold the      position in the highest court in the land and the only thing that my      adversaries could find about me was the fact that I'd belonged to a club      and that some of the people who were in that club, who I may not have      personally known, may have made some statements with which I didn't      agree, that were reprehensible--I would just think that that was not      fair.  And that's what I think about this. I think that trying to link      Samuel Alito to the statements that have been made by some members of      that organization is just not fair.  It shows that there really isn't a      lot in terms of criticism that they're able to level at Sam Alito.
Sam Alito I think is so incredibly well-qualified.  The      ABA, of course, has given him the highest rating possible because if his      judicial temperament and his background.  And I see no reason why this      man ought not be confirmed to be the next associate justice of the United      States Supreme Court.
He does have a record that shows where he stands.  I mean,      Judge Alito has repeatedly ruled in favor of minorities, making      allegations of racial discrimination and employment.  I mean, that's, I      guess, part of the underlying allegation of--or at least the charge that      he was a member of CAP, that he would somehow never be against      minorities.  And this couldn't be further from the truth.  He's got a      real history, Smith vs. Davis--B. Davis(ph).  He voted to reserve a grant      of summary judgment against an African-American man's claim that he'd      been discriminated against in employment on the basis of race.  And it's      happened again and again in Zubi vs. AT&T Corp. and Gooseby vs. Johnson &      Johnson Medical and Collins vs. Sload, and the list goes on.  So this is      somebody who has a history of doing the right thing when it comes to      people of color.
That's absolutely right.  You've got some great people      running for the US Senate.  Michael Steele is going to be running for the      US Senate, of course, from Maryland and has a very good chance to win.      That ought to change the balance somewhat, at least with regards to      representation of people of color in the US Senate.
Thanks so much, Juan.

Good to be here, Juan.
It is tough. It is tough. It is tough. And John McCain, as we all know, is well known for not holding his tongue, for not biting his tongue. He's also well known for trying to put together bipartisan efforts, as Donna so well said. And this is really, I think, a great leadership effort on his part to bring Republicans and Democrats together to put together legislation that is meaning and useful, and to take the politics out of it. That's what he's trying to do more than anything else. And he thought he had a commitment from Senator Barak Obama. It's tough being a freshman Senator, it really is, especially when you've been set up the way Barak Obama has been set up.
When you are given a chance before you're even elected to keynote at the Democratic National Convention, and you are talked about in terms of being one day on the presidential ticket, you really have nowhere to go but down. I mean, it's really hard to maintain that level of superstar status without it getting tarnished. And here it is, it has been dirtied.
Now, this is not new stuff, by the way, because many of us know that last month the Washington Note reported that Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid shared with the Washington Note that an unnamed Democratic Senator had come to him with a proposal on ethics reform that could be bipartisan, and Reid told the person, according to the Washington Note, he told the person that this was the wrong time to be engaged in constructive reform proposals with the other side; and he said that this was the time to draw a line and to show how our side, that is the Democrats, differ dramatically from their side. And this is unfortunate, but this is the nature of partisan politics, and Barak Obama is right in the middle of it.
Thanks, Juan.

Thanks, Juan.
We were discussing the election in 2006.
Well, it's always hard to sound smart when you're talking with--when you're talking on the other side of Ron Walters. So, I just did the best that I could. But I tried to explain where I thought we were headed in 2006. And I think that Republicans have a fair chance. Democrats are in a very good position this year, but Republicans, if they can get their message out, I think have a very good chance.
Well, certainly there are a lot of other strong Christian organizations that are out there right now. The Family Research Council is one that comes immediately to mind. But I wouldn't count the Christian Coalition out just yet. I mean, they've had some difficult times. They've had their funds depleted by virtue of trying to fend off some of the legal challenges that they've had in the last several years. And they've had, certainly, a change of leadership with Pat Robertson stepping down in 2001, and Ralph Reed, of course, having exited some time ago, but now being a candidate for lieutenant governor of Georgia.
But I wouldn't count them out. I think that, certainly, a lot of the things that they were talking about, if they don't continue--if they don't have a chance to continue to address them, it will be addressed by other organizations.
Well, you have to consider, of course, that presidents do have the right, by virtue of executive order, as Bill Clinton exercised, as Jimmy Carter exercised, as Ronald Reagan exercised, and as this president, George W. Bush, has exercised, they have the right by executive order to declassify information as they see fit, as long as it doesn't hurt the national security of the United States…
And that's what this president did.
And that's what this president did, he…
Thanks so much, Juan.

Well glad to be here, Ken.
I think his chances are very, very good for November. He had a contested primary, which is always a challenge. It means you have to spend money to win, to be the nominee--and he did that and he's won now fair and square. And I think the good thing about it is that it's really helped Ken to identify who it is, he is. Not that the people Ohio didn't already know who he happened to be. He's got a long history in the state, from local politics in the Cincinnati area, and as mayor for a term, as well as on the state level. There is, of course, secretary of state, and treasurer of the state of Ohio. And as a national person, having worked in the first Bush administration.
So he's got tremendous credentials. But he really is a very sincere guy. And, I think he holds close to him the same values that he was taught as a kid. And it just so happens that those values put him on the Republican side of the aisle.
Well, clearly, Ken Blackwell has to prove to the people of Ohio that he's the best person for the job, that he's not anybody else's person, he's not tagging along on somebody else's administration, that he's his own guy. And that's what he is. He's a very independent fellow, he's not in anybody's hip pocket, and I think he's proven that. And I think that's what makes him really compelling as a candidate.
Well I think any candidate that has something to say to people that deals with the things they care about will get their attention. And the good thing about this race is that you have an African-American running for governor, who not only has a message, and momentum, and money, but he's also somebody who I think really will grab the attention of a lot of African-Americans. Donna said it right, when she said that a number of African-American candidates now have proven, again and again, that they, as Republicans, can get a percentage of the black vote.
The good thing is, is that for many African-Americans in the past, they and we, because I'm African-American also, have gone to the polls--I happen to be Republican--but many African-Americans have gone to the polls and have done what in the past has been culturally comfortable. Because, most of us do tend to be Democrat.
But now, African-Americans have a choice. They don't have to be forced to vote Democratic. They can vote anyway they want, and they can vote for the candidates they wish to vote for. And if they agree with the values that Ken Blackwell has--those, by the way, are the same values that I was raised with in my household, by my parents, my African-American parents--who are, I guess, from a voting standpoint, who in the past were Democrat. When people hear the values that Ken Blackwell has, and the vision that he has for the state of Ohio, he's going to get a good percentage of those votes.
Thanks, Ken.

Thanks, Juan.
Well, I hope not. I certainly don't wish the congressman any ill. This is an unfortunate thing for him and for his family. And, certainly, it's going to be resolved at some point in the legal system. And at the same time, I would say this: there's such an eagerness on the part of some in politics to point the finger and to say, well, this really points to a culture of corruption and so on and so forth from this party of that party.
It's really not at all about that. There are people on both sides of the isle who, from time to time, have problems. And this is a problem that Congressman Jefferson has. And it's going to be a tough hurdle for him past because not only do they have the $90,000 that was recovered that was stored in the freezer at his home. But also they've apparently got videotape him taking a briefcase containing $100,000 out of a parked car.
And that's really - well, it's just hard to refute that kind of stuff, when you've got videotape evidence of him doing that. It's going to be very, very hard for Congressman Jefferson. He has alleged of course that this is racism and it's being done by certain people to discredit him. But, I think that there's a lot of pressure on him right now to consider what's in the best interest of the peoples of his district.
Now, he's even got Republicans who are, not necessarily on his side, but who have problems with some of the ways that some of the searches that have been conducted in the past. House Majority Leader John Boehner actually told reporters in an off camera briefing that he had serious concerns about the search that took place in Jefferson's office. But at the same time, Jefferson has very, very serious problems. And at some point, if he doesn't step aside it's going to really hurt the Democrats.
Well, this is a very, very sad thing, a very unfortunate thing. I don't think, however, that this is a conspiracy. That - I think that when charges are leveled, it's because the authorities have done months and months and months of investigation. And the investigations just take time to unfold, and when they become public, generally speaking, they have everything in place to bring the charges forward.
Thanks so much, Juan.

Thanks for having us.
Well, he may be on his way to becoming the next action movie star, as one of the newspapers said about him - about the reception of the movie. Of course, the movie has done very, very well so far. It's opened to rave reviews. And clearly, lots of candidates are able to advance themselves by being non-candidates. Clearly, Al Gore is somebody who not just has national name ID - and now international name ID - but he is a major league player for the Democrats.
And the Democrats have some problems, some challenges. One of the problems that they have, of course, is the fact that Hillary Clinton really is leading the field. She's drawing up monetary sources for other would-be candidates out there. And there're a number of others who would like to be president or would like to run for president as Democrats.
Many Democrats feel that if Hillary Clinton is the nominee of the party in 2008 that the Democrats are sunk; that they are stuck with a losing candidate and the Republicans will take the election in 2008. So Al Gore offers a very attractive alternative to Democrats. He's somebody who's run before for president. He served two terms as vice president.
He had a very, very close race in the presidential runback in 2000. And now, of course, he's become very popular during this period of time when he is a non candidate. He could very, very easily emerge as a very strong and attractive alternative for Democrats who are looking for a candidate for 2008.
Sounds like he might be a candidate to me.
Sounds like he might be a candidate to me.
That's right. We've got so many exciting candidates on the Republican side of the aisle. 2008 is going to be an exciting year.
I think so, on the Republican side, yes.
Well, there are several candidates that will be attractive to Republicans to...
...African-Americans, that is. John McCain certainly would be attractive to African-Americans. He is a maverick and he's somebody who speaks his mind. And I think he would do very, very well with African-American voters. And he's also got a lot of crossover vote as well. I mean, he's a very attractive candidate.
You've got Rudy Giuliani. You've got Mitt Romney. You've got...
Well, that's...
Well, that's in New York City. But I think, as a national candidate, Rudy Giuliani is very, very attractive.
He's a strong, no-nonsense kind of guy. His biggest challenge, of course, comes from conservatives within the party, within the Republican Party, who might not be too terribly attracted to some of his social perspectives.
Thanks, Juan.

Well, it's even bigger than politics as you can see, because a lot of the ministers that may have been standing with Katherine Harris and various other well known Republican legislators may not classify themselves are Republicans. But they certainly agree with the Republican Party and with this president on this issue.
And it shows that the Republican Party has the ability to attract African-Americans who agree with them on a lot of the values issues. So this is a very, very strong signal. We saw this, of course, in some states back in 2004. During that election cycle you saw in Ohio and Florida and various other places, African-American ministers who may, in the past, not have aligned with the Democratic Party, aligning with the president and Republicans in that election because they agree with Republicans on that important issue.
As an African-American who certainly has benefited the hard work of so many people during the 1950s and 1960s to level the playing field in this country, I don't know that anything can equate with that. Every issue is what it is, and it's own issue.
This is an important one because, obviously, it has something to do with the way families look in this country going forward. It's not against anybody, but it's really more a statement for families, for the institution of marriage. And I grew up in a traditional family. I was so fortunate to have my mother and a father, and I still do.
And my parents raised me with the understanding that marriage is between a man and woman. That's not to say anything about contracts between people or other kinds of things. But it certainly does say that marriage, the institution as we know it and as we understand it, and certainly as the Bible has ordained it, is between a man and a woman.
I think their intention is good, but I don't think that it's at all feasible. I don't think it can work. It's brand new, it's Internet-based. And that sounds maybe exciting to some people. But remember that if it is Internet-based it's going to knock out a whole segment of voters. Particularly, poor people - which is nearly a quarter of the American populous - who don't have access to the Internet. So those people wouldn't even be able to participate in this kind of a process.
So, to me, I don't think that it really has legs.

Thanks, Juan.
And that's part of the reason why you see the Democrats leading the parade to have the congressman stripped of his committee post here. They know that this is a very, very serious thing, and that it doesn't look at all good for Congressman William Jefferson. Now we do know - Donna is right, that in this country we do have the presumption that you are innocent until you are proven guilty. But the evidence seems to be almost overwhelming already. And it seems that an indictment is certainly on its way.
So I think Democrats are trying to preempt the indictment. They're trying to minimize the damage that'll be done by an indictment sometime in the next few weeks or months, of the congressman, by having him step down now.
African-Americans ought not be in anybody's hip pocket. And I think more and more you're going to see independence among African-American voters. Donna has said it well: that I don't think African-Americans who are Democrats are going to just sit back and take it on the chin when African-Americans are not treated well by the party.
Well, it'll be interesting to see if they win control of the Congress. Obviously, they've got to get past - they've got to win a lot of races in order to regain control of the U.S. House of Representatives. And this kind of divisiveness isn't helping them. The fact that Nancy Pelosi is spending so much time trying to, I guess, plan ahead for the fallout from a possible Jefferson indictment really tells the trick of the tale.
This ought to be a strong year, a great year for Democrats. If you look at the poll numbers that we've had on our side of the isle, we've had a lot of challenges, and a lot of people had predicted this would be a great year for Democrats. But Democrats are having a very, very hard time. There's a lot of confusion within the party. A lot of in-fighting. People are already battling, as you just mentioned, for positions. And so, even before the elections have taken place, you've got all this infighting. And it's very, very possible that we may see the Democrats implode.
But it does make...
But it does make Congressman Murtha's pronouncements on the war on Iraq look a little bit more disingenuous, don't you think? The fact that he is - he's been so far out there on that issue and then, suddenly, out of nowhere - or seemingly, at least to some people - out of nowhere, he springs this forward. I mean, it makes what he's done in the past several months look very disingenuous.
Well, you know, Murtha, of course, himself is a war hero and the like. That's why he has tremendous credibility when he talks about war issues, and that's why people listen when somebody like him talks about the need for us to get out. But in recent months, certainly, it looks like he's done a lot of piling on and he's only built - it looks as if he's building for himself personally, for his own personal political career by his recent pronouncements.
Thanks so much, Juan.

Thanks, Juan.
I think that's right. I think the president - what I really admire about his position on all this is that the buck stops with him. And it's not about assigning blame to anybody else, but it's a matter of looking at what we can do, since it happened under our watch, to get things done and to bring about positive change.
And it doesn't have to do with Republican or Democrat either. It's about making sure that Americans everywhere, and specifically Americans in the areas that were most hard - that were hit most hard, get the satisfaction that they need. So he's working very, very hard, and has a number of his agencies working very, very hard to provide satisfaction.
And I'm really pleased with the - some of the bipartisan stuff that's happened, some of the bipartisan work that's been done to make - to bring about positive change.
I don't think it'll undermine it. I just think that people will be a lot more careful in the future as to how dollars are spent and where money is going. Obviously, because resources are so scarce, you want to make sure that every dollar that's allocated goes some place where it's needed and that it's not being ill spent or poorly spent.
Absolutely.
Bad apples.
Well, obviously, as Donna said, the - we've all got to be more careful. There's got to be a lot more scrutiny with regards to how these precious dollars are spent. We want to make sure that the money that's being allocated gets to the people who really need it. That's what it's all about.
And this is - there is a complete bipartisan sense of this. This is not about partisan politics. It's about making sure that the people who have been put in harm's way and who have really suffered because of what happened there get the help that they need.
No matter what happens, clearly, there is resolve on the part of both Democrats and Republicans to get it done, to make sure that the people in that part of the country get the aid that they need. And it's all about helping Americans, really. That's what it's about.
Thanks, Juan.

Thanks so much, Juan.
Well, of course, candidates say things during the heat of the campaigns and during quiet moments when they may have their guard down. I think that this - Michael Steele has proven himself to be a strong Republican, a strong supporter of the president, somebody who really wowed Americans at the Republican National Convention back in 2004, which really helped catapult him to national stature and is somebody who is expected the Senate race in Maryland in November.
I think he has a great chance of winning. I think that in order to win he has to bring Democrats to his side, and I think that's he's going to do that effectively. But I wouldn't put too much on the comments that he made.
Well, Lynn Swann is a great candidate. The only thing that he lacks right now is really the money that he needs to be able to compete with Ed Rendell in the fall campaign. A presidential visit for a gubernatorial candidate means a lot of money; it means an immediate boost to one's campaign coffers of maybe one or two or three million dollars.
No, she's not daydreaming. What I would say is that things are changing slowly. Not perhaps as quickly as some people on the Republican side might like to see them change, but they are changing. There is certainly in some circles a greater interest and more awareness of the Republican Party for African-Americans.
And this is good. We saw it, of course, in the 2004 election, and we're likely to see it again this coming November. I think the Republicans will be able to capitalize in some of the disappointment that African-Americans have had with Democrats taking them for granted in some instances. And they'll look more closely at Republicans.
And regarding the Krugman article, if it has to do with economics, certainly the message is getting better and better. If you look at the rate of unemployment in the country, it's at an all-time low; it's lower than it's been in four decades, under five percent. And if you look at the rate of homeownership and the rate of growth of small businesses and minority small businesses, these are certainly strong indicators that some things are beginning to change to for people of color.
That's a good message. There is still a long distance to travel, but that's a good message.
Thanks, Juan.

Good to be with you, Juan.
I don't think it's the only way, but certainly it's the smart thing to do. To play, of course, to his base and that's what he's doing. It's unusual to see groups get together so early on in the campaign. Normally we wait, or group's wait, ‘til after the Labor Day holiday to really become focused and vocal. But this group is being mobilized now.
I think it's a very smart move on Blackwell's part. He has some ground to make up and I think this group can help him make it up by really rallying the troops on the values issues.
Well, I think African-Americans have responded well to Blackwell in the past. Remember, this is somebody who's not a newcomer to Ohio politics. He was a Bush - that is a George Herbert Walker Bush - appointee. And then after that, he was elected twice to statewide office. And now the challenge is for him to bring Democrats, people who were not able to support him in the primary perhaps, into the fold to support him in a very loud and visible way in the general.
Well, of course, this happens - when you have bruising primaries and when you are as outspoken a person as Ken Blackwell has been on issues, when you have certainly differed visibly, openly, with other members of your party, there's a price to be paid for that, and think this is some of the price.
But there's still time to mend those fences and make sure that the other Republicans in the party, in the state are onboard with him.
I do indeed, and I know Joe Biden well. He's a very bright man. He is clearly saying this because there are some who say that he can't run effectively. He's saying it's because it's of John Edwards being a South Carolina favorite son, and also Mark Warner. These are two guys who are expected to be candidates for the Democratic nomination in 2008.
What it fails to do is it fails to realize the fact that Hillary Rodham Clinton has a huge lead on the Democratic side of the aisle in the race for the presidency in 2008. And while he may be fighting against John Warner - I'm sorry - John Edwards and Mark Warner, Biden better set his sights on other people like Hillary Rodham Clinton and John Kerry and various others. And Al Gore, all of whom, of course, loom as real favorites for that nomination.
Thanks, Juan.

Good to be with you, Juan.
Well, there are many people who were trying to say that this election, and certainly the election even in Rhode Island, would be some kind of a referendum on the Bush administration and their policies. And so even though Lincoln Chafee has not been a strong Bush ally in the Senate, he is a Republican. And the thought was he would be tarnished with that same brush and that he would be in jeopardy of losing his seat.
And some of the polls early on showed that he might indeed be in danger, but he won. Which really brings to bear what Ken Mehlman, the RNC chairman, has been saying over and over again, which is that this is not going to be about the larger issue, it's not going to be some kind of the referendum on the Bush presidency. More importantly it's going to be about local issues and local candidates running in their states.
Well, the question is now where do those voters who voted for Mfume go in the general election, which is just a couple of months away. Do they go with Cardin, the Democrat, or do they defect to Michael Steele? Now remember Steele did so well back in 2002. Many people believe that it's his nomination to be lieutenant governor, and the fact that Ehrlich chose him, the governor, chose him to be his running mate is what helped him to win the governor's race back in 2002.
The question is will the same kind of thing happen now in this U.S. Senate race in Maryland in 2006? Will African-American voters who voted for Mfume defect and vote for Michael Steele in the November election? And I say that Steele has a very, very good chance, a very strong chance of getting a lot of those voters who voted for Mfume to vote for him.
Thank you, Juan.

Thanks for having us.
I think this latest episode where he has been accused - I mean, this is an allegation. And, mind you, it's a 35-year-old allegation. It's an allegation by somebody who went to college with the senator who says now that he heard that some of the white people on the team said that George Allen used that word often in conversation. Then he also heard that apparently on a hunting trip he wanted to take a deer's head and put it in somebody's mailbox. And he was looking specifically for a black family's mailbox to put it in.
Well, these are allegations and they're old allegations. And if I were the senator, the way I would address them is I'd say, you know what? Thirty-five years is a long time ago. I don't remember having done anything like that. But if I did do something that silly, I certainly apologize for it and I hope you won't hold me accountable today for what I did when I was a teenager. But I'm certainly not that person now, and then go on about your business.
But this is - why would this guy, the man who's making these allegations, why would he suddenly six weeks from Election Day be so offended? Wouldn't he have been offended 20 years ago or 35 years ago when it first happened? And why now does it come out? It's got to let you know that Webb and his people certainly see this as a way to try to damage George Allen.
Absolutely not. I think that a 35-year-old allegation is not at all fatal to his campaign, that if I were George Allen - if that's the worst they can do to me - I would just stick to the key topics in the campaign debate and move forward.
Thanks, Juan.

Thanks, Juan.
Well, clearly there is some forward movement in America with regards to how they view candidates. And Michael Steele ran, I think, a valiant race. He worked very, very hard to have the endorsement of a number of very influential African-Americans who are not Republicans, chief among them Russell Simmons and Cathy Hughes, as well as the endorsement of Wayne Curry, a very prominent Democrat in the state of Maryland.
But that was not enough to get it done. He distanced himself in some regards from the president on some issues. But nonetheless he still garnered under the 30 percent of the black vote. But that's still a good number. The 27 percent that he good is still a fairly strong showing.
Ken Blackwell is no stranger to African-Americans in the state of Ohio, because he's run twice before for state office, having run once for state treasurer and secretary of state, and having won those offices in past years. He's well known in the state on the ballot. This was a tough year for anybody running in the state of Ohio has a Republican because of the economy and some of the corruption charges and the like. So I don't think it was so much a matter of African-Americans coming out for or against Ken Blackwell as much as it had to do with the climate in Ohio.
Lynn Swann just didn't have the money that he needed to get his message out. Otherwise I think he would've gotten a bigger number.
Well, I interpret it is all politics are local. You know, when it suits the purpose, then it's good to bring out the acquaintance. And when it doesn't suit the purpose, of course, then you would draw the distinction. Barack Obama is a very talented, very smart politician and he's got real star power on the Democratic side. He's somebody who we're all going to be seeing lots of on the national scene for the next few years. And I think he just took full advantage of his present rising star to endorse candidates.
Clearly he was helpful to Ben Cardin in endorsing him in Maryland. And I'm sure he was a help as well to Harold Ford, although Harold Ford wasn't able to quite pull it off.
I think...
I'm sorry. I think that they're well able to take care of themselves. They're all very talented people. I think certainly when you talk about a Michael Steele, who's been lieutenant governor of the state of Maryland, or you talk about a Ken Blackwell, who's been secretary of state, they're easily able to shift into something else, be it the world of finance or in some cases if Michael Steele's a lawyer, he might want to go back into the world of law.
Harold Ford is a young, bright guy, talented guy. He can do anything he wants to do as well. So I don't think they'll be any problem with them shifting. The biggest challenge will be keeping their name out there.
I was not surprised at the outcome, although I know that General Powell is a popular man, and obviously lots of people listen to what he has to say. I think that if I had to guess - and I haven't seen the breakdown of the numbers - but if I had to guess, it probably broke down along racial lines, where African-Americans, realizing the need to level the playing field, would've supported it, and the majority culture probably would've voted against it because they would see affirmative action, or they had been led to believe affirmative action leads to unfairness and to bias.

He's a very attractive candidate. I remember that back in 1994 he nearly edged out U.S. Senator Ted Kennedy, which was seen to be almost impossible to do in the state of Massachusetts. But he came close to doing it back in 1994. Was elected himself as governor of the state in 2002 and has had a very, very good time of it. I think he'll do extraordinarily well in the primaries if he's able to get his message out and raise the money that he needs to get his message out and also to build an organization.
Well, that's exactly right. He's a more conservative candidate now. What makes him attractive to a lot of the conservative base is the fact that he stands where the conservative base stands on a lot of the social issues.
Well, clearly, Romney is the one that wants to lay claim to Ronald Reagan's conservative base. But you have to consider the fact that John McCain has been around for a long time. He's a true American hero. He has already been through the process once. He was very credible in the 2000 presidential sweepstakes and will be so again. I think John McCain is the man to beat going forward.
I actually do. I think you have to look at the numbers because of course there's all the hype and excitement. John Edwards picked what normally would have been a great week to make an announcement and sadly it was a difficult week, James Brown passed away on Christmas Day, the day after President Ford passed away, and of course Saddam Hussein was hanged at the end of the week. So it was a week that was full of important breaking news.
You've got to look at the fact that Hillary Clinton has $13 million already to - that she's bringing over from her U.S. Senate campaign, her successful 2006 Senate campaign. She's got Bill Clinton, her husband, the former president - he was hugely popular around the country - on her side to also raise her significant dollars. She's already got staff people. And Barack Obama, of course, is still very intense. He's very popular but the negatives are getting ready to come out about him, by other Democrats that is. We'll have to see how he fields those negatives as well as how well he's be able to raise money and build an organization.
We'll have to see. I think what Ron Walters said is right on the money. There's still a lot to be said as to whether or not he really has legs and a chin, you know. I said this before and I'll say it again, Mike Tyson looked absolutely invincible until he run into Buster Douglas, and once Buster Douglas upended him, he got upended again and again and again.
We'll have to see how these negatives - how Barack defends against the negatives that are going to come out against him. And we're going to have to see whether he has the ability to really raise money and to build an organization to not just show but to actually win some of these primaries.
Thanks, Ken.

Good to be here.
I don't know that there is a need for an additional committee. Obviously, everybody in the country is sympathetic, I think, toward the challenges that face people who live in the Gulf Coast area, and certainly people in New Orleans who've had a terrible rough time of the last year and change in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.
But also this is about political posturing. A lot of Democrats, both on the House side and the Senate side, are having fun teeing off at the president and the administration on this. The bigger challenge has been, at least for Ray Nagan and the city of New Orleans, has been with the state of the Louisiana, which is run by a Democratic governor, and it's the inability of those Democrats to get along and to get things done. I mean, after all FEMA has allocated some $334 million for the Hurricane Katrina effort, and to date only less than half of that money has been collected by the city of New Orleans. And the state says the reason why is because the city has not filled out the necessary papers. And then Nagan says, well, the papers are too cumbersome to fill out.
Well, what I will say is that certainly you haven't heard the kind of complaining for Mississippi that you've heard from other places. And you haven't heard about the local authorities complaining about the state moving slowly in the state of Mississippi, because the governor has been working with local authorities to get things done. And he hasn't put the blame on anybody. He just, well, put his nose to the grindstone and has gotten it done for the people of Mississippi, which is very admirable.
In the state of Louisiana, of course, we've consistently, since the beginning, engaged or seen an engagement of the blame game. Why is there no mention of the governor in this? Why is there no mention of the responsibility of state officials and the need for city and state officials to work better in this incident?
Thanks so much, Juan.

There is no doubt about that, and he has to get past his personal problems, of course, so that he can get on track, though, with being the governor of Massachusetts.
And also, there's the added pressure on him, of course, of being in a situation where he has this veto-proof majority in the legislator, in both chambers. There's going to be a lot of pressure on him to really show what he has accomplished in the four years that he's been governor.
Well, he - I think the voters judged the candidates based on who they are and what they'll do at the time. And Mitt Romney, of course, was elected governor of Massachusetts. He did a great job as governor, and he has - he's in a very good position right now as a candidate for the presidency of the United States - for the Republican nomination, that is. I think he's going to be a very, very strong candidate in that regard.
But I think Deval Patrick ran a very good race. And I think Donna Brazile said it right, that he ran a very, very strong grassroots campaign. He talked to the voters. The good thing that it says about voters in this Commonwealth of Massachusetts is that they're much bigger than color. That they looked at the candidates and they voted for candidates based upon how they felt about what they're saying, not based on the color of their skin.
That's a wonderful statement for all of America that that kind of thing is happening now in this country. We had a great candidate in Lieutenant Governor Healey. She came up short on Election Day and Deval Patrick won a very, very strong race.
Right.
But he…
All three of them are a great candidates and certainly leaders of the future, you - Harold Ford, Barack Obama and Deval Patrick - but three very different candidates, three very different politicians.
Harold Ford, of course, much more conservative politically than the others. Somebody who openly talked about his faith on the campaign in Tennessee, ran a very, very strong race for the U.S. Senate in Tennessee, and he's somebody who I'm sure will be back given the fact that he's got this great position now, I believe, with Merrill Lynch. That'll be a great springboard for him if ever he wants to run again for political office statewide or nationally.
Barack Obama, of course, his story is being made, as we speak. And right now, he's still in the honeymoon period with Americans as they get to know him better. But he'll have to answer to some of the tougher questions about his voting record as a member of the Illinois State Senate, and also talk more clearly and specifically about where he'd like to take America as it relates to the war in Iraq and domestic issues.
I'm referring to the fact that when he was a member of the Illinois State Senate, on several occasions, he voted - he chose to vote present on some very, very important issues. And that something he's going to have answer…
Such as partial birth abortion. How can you be a candidate for the presidency of the United States and not have a position on partial birth abortion? To either to be for it or against it and explain why? He chose to vote present.
Thanks, Juan.
