Quite likable, I spoke to one of my contacts, the head of police. He told me they got there right on time this morning. They were just about to move. The team that was there, they got very lucky to be there right on time. He didn't want to elaborate what kind of operation, what they were about to carry, but we can assume there were secondary targets maybe in the neighborhood there were rumors in the past month or so that they were going to target shopping malls, and that could be what they intended to do. But the team was ready and the fact that the woman was wearing a suicide vest can explain, you know, and died very early in the operation.
Well, I cannot confirm. But my feeling is that, yes, when he said we got there right on time, it was not they moved, they cleared the area, they got there you know rushing.
But what is interesting, too, is the number of people involved in this because, you know, it was originally seven attackers. And yesterday moved to nine and now we are discovering more and more people. And there is probably, you know, maybe others, they are now looking for a second, you know, a second wave of attacks. So that's what's making people very worried today. Is this over or is this not over?
Yes. And, you know, if there is more. But there is also something that I would like to, you know, to tell is that Abdelhamid Abaaoud, which is supposed to be --
He said that she was -- she's not -- I asked if she's -- we all thought she was going to be Hayat Boumeddiene, Hayat, a former girlfriend of Coulibaly --
She managed to make it to Syria, back to Syria, she managed to flee. We thought that there was you know the potential that this woman would come back. There is another woman high on the list whose name is Emily
He didn't want to make comments. But my feeling, my gut feeling, is Abaaoud, having seen him on video cameras that he took from Syria. He was you know the video lasted from, dated from 2014. Back then, he was just a henchman in ISIS. He moved up the hierarchy. But Abaaoud, I don't think Abaaoud is probably a leader of the team. He has, his combat seasoned. You know, he's made his way up in ISIS. I don't, you know, that's my gut feeling again. I'm not the expert on that. But I don't believe he's the mastermind of this operation. There has to be somebody on much more organized of with other competence these guys.
The groups, you know, by nationality, fighting together in Syria. I mean, they've had it from almost the beginning of the outpour of volunteers from France. We knew there was this French brigade that was in ISIS, operating in ISIS and all connected, you know, of course, because they know each other from petty crime, you know, from prison or for having served together or having been at school together, because they all come from the same suburbs. We have this instance the family jihad with those three brothers. You know all from Molenbeek in Belgium, and apparently, you were telling me that Abaaoud and Abdeslam went together at school.
These are really the returnees that we're seeing right now. We are being hit by we fear the most, is these people have been trained in Syria and coming back to strike at home.
One element we add to that is the common experience they got from -- I was in Syria a week ago with the regime forces in places like Jobar (ph) and northern Homs, and some of the places we went to had been conquered by the regime force. We could see you know the level of fortification that the rebels had built. These people are used, have been used for years to go to, you know, from one end of the building to the next by digging holes in the walls. So, that wouldn't surprised me if you have somebody like this entrenched in building in Saint-Denis, that could last a little longer than somebody who doesn't have that kind of experience, you know?
It was re-liberated from Jabhat al-Nusra, and it was the town of

Well, I think it's good especially for the French people to see our old ally, one of the oldest ally, England, embodied by Cameron, coming here and show support. Of course, the president has said they were going to exchange, increase cooperation and decide together how -- the best way to fight ISIS. It is important because also ,you know, the French and British, when it comes to the war on terror, have had some disagreements in the past, because -- especially with the war in Iraq. There was this feeling in England of a war fatigue, which actually made -- the British parliament was reluctant to vote, and voted against strikes in Syria at first. That was a time where the question was striking Assad forces and not ISIS. This time around, things are getting different. The British, of course, know what terror can be with 2005 bombings in London. So they're going to show support and it's good, but it's only the first stage. I think Francois Hollandeis going to move, we know, tomorrow to Washington and then to Moscow. Is he going to be able to build his grand coalition of forces to actually be the most successful and the most equipped to fight ISIS? That is to be seen. Because obviously there is still some reluctance and there's still some sharp disagreement between Putin and Obama. Are they going to be able to come together? I think now France has -- with France, what has happened, has the strongest voice ever to bring everybody on board.
That's right. But you can already see that on the ground. You know, military people are much more practical than politicians. And already on the ground, we can see that. It's not clear cut, but the Russian and the French are going to take care of Syria whereas the Americans are going to care of Iraq with the Kurds. So that's probably the map and that's what probably. Now when it comes to coordination, the U.S. and the Russian makes a very precise point of telling they are not really -- they're not strictly cooperating, they are just avoiding air incidents. But on the fact, what is happening on the ground, they're not -- they're actually cooperating. But they could push it a step further. This is what I think a lot of people are expecting. A lot of people are expecting that we are going to go and uproot this evil that was born in the Middle East.
They are, but not to -- his rebound has not been as big as it was after Charlie. That's remember that back then, he was able to bring all of the leaders and demonstrate their support of France in Paris. That went from
Yes, I think everybody feels, especially in Paris, we know people that were there, or we know people that were injured. Some people knew some people that got killed. It is all in our community.
Yes, of course. The Bataclan is a place where I go sometimes for gigs, to attend gigs. And of course, I would be at the back. When you hear what happened, actually, you know where the bar is. You know it's a place where you can get a beer while listening to music.
It's very weird. It's very weird. And all those cafes also are very popular. You know, Le

Well, it tells us that, you know, there's no doubt that (inaudible) and, you know, everything bears the sign of ISIS or, you know, it's, you know, I hate the term lone wolf because it turns out that every time we use that term the guy is connected -- has been connected in the past. And from what we know, it was one guy driving a truck that went in the crowd and we also know that in the past weeks, ISIS sympathizer had been urging their (inaudible) especially in France to use that type of weapon or to use that type of, you know, anything they can and they are urging, they are doing so, you know, it's terror related, there's no doubt about it.
Yeah. It's, you know, everything had been cleaned up. You're perfectly right to say that there was no car and only, you know, pedestrians were walking by and actually leaving the place where the fireworks were. We don't know how the truck managed to get through. And it was obviously, you know, from the field which the only vehicle, you know, crossing there and, you know, it's something that will probably be investigated in the next hours. And we'll probably, you know, know what has gone on and, you know, how that truck, particularly, and that driver was able to go through. But to go back to what happened. I mean, now the number of casualties reached 77. And I was talking to a source in Nice, and they, you know, it could very well be that at the end of the night the number with the one -- or even go above the one at the Bataclan, which means that, you know, was using one truck and one guy, you know, that they're able to create more casualties that, you know, maybe complex operation that they're led in Paris
It's very scary for the future. They've been urging to do this so, they've been saying to some of their fans also not to come to the caliphate, not to come to Iraq or Syria. Stay in their place and, you know, and act over there and this is what the scary part especially given that ISIS on the ground in Syria and Iraq is on the defensive now and hasn't had any victories in the past and it's shrinking. So, this is very critical moment, I believe, and what we're seeing in this, of course, it's, you know, a tragic repercussion of what's going on over there.
Yeah. As far as I know especially, you know, between France and Belgium. You know, believe it or not before November 13, unfortunately, things were not coordinated very well and now they're very well coordinated. I know it from that part of the investigation that they share as much information as they can and, you know, especially given the fact that a number of the people that attacked Paris, coming from Brussels and that's been, you know, a lot of -- a number of people arrested given coordination between the French police and the Belgian police. With the intel abroad I believe that from what -- the American intel and the French intel has been working very closely but that has been going on for quite a number of years now. And, of course, you know, we all hope that this will go, you know, better and better so we can catch these people before they act.
Yeah. I heard that. You know, one of the local politicians have said that there were with some weapons and, you know, then there was -- grenades were found as well and the driver might have been carried a light weapon with him. As far as I know, there was also a video where we can hear gunshots and it's hard that being, you know, knowing if those gunshots were the results of the, you know, the police stopping the car or the truck, I mean, or that it happened before because one, you know, (inaudible) apparently said that the driver started firing before their getting their truck, you know, so it's still very, very confusing and we have to be very careful with what's being reported you know, until -- I mean on the full night done on ...
It's a horrific tragedy.

Well, this is one of the many dark events that happened during World War II and especially during the occupation here. But let me say about the Vel d'Hiv, especially the city of the Vel d'Hiv, that for a long time, the French authorities and especially the French president said it was made under the order of the Nazi and the French had nothing to do. So the full responsibility was not -- did not belong to the French until Jacques Chirac decided to go one step further, hence we recognize the full responsibility of the French because the Nazis had ordered to wrap up the number of people but not -- not that many/ They didn't order the children to be with them. And that was the initiative of the French police back then who decided to go beyond. So this is very dark. It is a dark Franco French, you know, it -- it was in the burden for French for at least over 50 years.
That's right. Here we have a newcomer versus an old crocodile, which means -- I mean, Putin he -- Macron met Putin before. We have to -- and you know, in Paris, in
They had trouble with both of them. And he's being very -- a lot of inflexibility on many, many issues.
Well, we've seen some major shift in the French political, diplomatical, and especially regarding Syria. Macron said no more Bashar al-Assad must go for policy, which is totally new.
Definitely. And they say they wanted to work closely with the Russians. Now we know that the Russians have an influence in -- you know, in Syria. We also know that the Iranians are in Syria and I think that's one of the main point Netanyahu will try to see if his, you know, counterpart has changed on, is this issue of the Iranian influence in the area. The Iranian is very powerful -- Iran is very powerful in Syria right now. About a month ago, for the first time, they tested ballistic missile against ISIS in Syria so that's -- for the Israeli, that's a threat directly. And will the new French political stance on the Middle East means working more with Iran? That's what Netanyahu will try to see with Macron. And if Macron is changing and the French have changed on that particular issue.
That's right.
Yes.
Well, don't know yet. And that's the -- that's what another issue that will Netanyahu will try to see where Macron stands on. The particular problem with the predecessor of Macron, he tried to internationalized the issue, making -- bringing more people in the conversation and that's what the Israelis didn't like. Now there has to be a move. We know that Macron would probably make a case for a two-state solution. Netanyahu knows that. Now where does Macron stand? Will he stand against the further colonies? Will he stand on -- you know, where does he stand on the Palestinian issue? We have to remind the viewer that Mahmoud Abbas was welcomed first.
You know, not so long ago by Macron. So there's a number of things that needs to be seen. And you know it's the first round maybe of talks and we'll see if Netanyahu himself is able to evolve because he hasn't -- you know, shown much well, to change in the past years or so.
