Nice to be here.
Well, I believe that there is a world of difference. I mean, I agree with, you know, the idea that we are in era of helicopter parenting and parents who are too eager to sort of wrap their kids in bubble wrap before they send them out into the world. But I think that there is a little bit of a gulf between, okay, let's overcome this over-parenting and let's send our child out on to the middle of the Indian Ocean with essentially no help.
I think that - it seems to me that there's a happy medium somewhere in there that is being lost, a happy medium where we can, you know, raise these bold kids but not send kids out on narcissistic quests like this one that, when she gets in trouble, require, you know, the help of a foreign maritime association and, as I understand it, French sailors who risked their lives to pluck her out of the ocean.
Yes, fame and fortune in the sense that the father - at least prior to his daughter's trip, I believe it had been called off by the time she actually set sail - but was shopping a reality program, "Adventures in Sunderland," you know, based on this idea that he had these daredevil kids, these thrill-seeking kids. And I think that's the twist that adds an extra hint of reprehensibility to me. It reminds me of Jessica Dubroff, who was killed, I guess, about 10 years ago - age seven, as I recall - trying to become the youngest person to fly across country.
And what's fascinating to me about that particular story was that her parents were anti-television, didn't own a television and thought television was bad, but they were doing this for the benefit of, as I recall, CNN and I believe, ABC television news cameras. Something's wrong with that picture.
I think he's overstating the danger of public housing projects by a large degree, but also the fact that, you know, he says that she chose to undertake this risk, you know, relying upon her skills. Even if you buy that - and I don't necessarily do that, because I think that at 16, you're kind of below the age of having the emotional maturity to make that kind of decision. But even if you buy that, what about the French sea captain who fell into the ocean and could conceivably have drowned or died rescuing her?
If she chose to take that risk, you might say, okay, fine. But what about him? What about the Australian taxpayers who have to foot the bill for rescuing her?
But the French - the gentleman who fell into the ocean and could have drowned wasn't search and rescue. He was a captain of a fishing boat who happened to come to the young lady's aid.
Well, I will confess to not being completely up on Alexander the Great's...
...accomplishments, but I will dare to say that I suspect that whatever Alexander went out for at the date of which he was 16, if I'm not mistaken, that there was a necessity for...
Yeah, and an army - a very good point - and had an army at his back. Again, part of what riles me about Abby Sunderland was that there was no real, driving necessity. Magellan set forth on the seas to find a, you know, western route to the Spice Islands. Columbus set forth to find the, quote, unquote, "new world." So at least there was some compelling reason for these individuals to undertake these dangerous voyages.
Abby Sunderland was apparently trying to validate a reality show concept, among other things. I shouldn't cut her off like that. I'm sure she had some personal gains that she was going for, also.
Yes, and her older brother had also done it. But then again, the reality show is part of the mix. And I'm sorry, I have trouble according that - the same level of respect.
Well, I would just - harkening back to what you said about we do this for the same reason we play baseball, et cetera - and I agree with you on age, by the way. That's another one of my complaints here. But as far as baseball, the salient difference is baseball, by and large, is not going to kill you.
Yeah. And if you're a Cubs fan, they may make you wish you were dead, but it is not going to kill you on most days.
Thank you.

Thank you.
Everybody was so taken by the fact that we just put it out there. And we went there, and we talked about - about race in a way that was very kind of personal, very kind of to our families. And it was like it was a safe space.
But I'll never forget the fact that people just thought that that moment was something extraordinary in their lives because we talked about it. And I think that we, we don't really have the tools do that because we don't really see it happening a lot, a lot of jokes, but we don't really see smart people sitting around talking a lot and often about this issue.
It is not uncomfortable for me, but it seems to be uncomfortable for a lot of people who read me. And I think that a good part of the reason for that is that there is no - we have not evolved safe spaces, where people can have these discussions, where if you are white and of good will you can have an honest discussion about the things you understand, the things you don't understand, without the fear that someone is either going to reflexively call you a racist or try to impose some guilt on you or that you're going to feel some guilt, you know, conversely that you don't necessarily want to feel.
It's really difficult for people to let down the barriers and let down the guard enough to really have these discussions, and that's the - you know, that's what I think I'm hearing said in different ways, you know, my comments and the other two comments that preceded mine, and yet at the same time there is no discussion that is more important for us to have.
If you look at pretty much all the major domestic issues that we are concerned about, if you look at the environment, if you look at education, if you look at crime, all of these things, there is a strong racial component. There is a racial component that underlies all of these things. And yet we have this sort of see-no-evil attitude.
A lady told me once, in chiding me about talking about race, that it wasn't polite. And that struck me as such an odd choice of words. It's as if I had done something, you know, ill-mannered at the dinner party. Race is one of those things that you just don't discuss.
It is the elephant in the elevator.
politics, you know, whatever.
Or they see when I'm - they see what's happening when - on Broadway, they'll see the interaction between an undocumented Mexican immigrant and how he's treated by a particular person, and we talk about that. Or I'll engage with that person.
Am I exposing them too much? But then it's like you know what? It's not like - it's not like overwhelming. It's not like a lesson. It's how I live. I live a kind of organic diversity in my experience, and I want my children to understand that they do, and that part of that means you can, in fact, talk about who you are, talk about, you know, the fact that your godmother is African-American, but, you know, your (unintelligible) is Mexican. No problem.
We talk about it. But I agree with Leonard, where it's that we don't really have, like, we don't have a model for how to do that. All we know is that it's something hard, difficult, taboo. So we don't go there. We don't even try.
Although I want to say that, you know, having been now to 49 of the 50 states, you know, we have to give props to a lot of people who are actually out there doing it and living it and talking about it. So, you know, when we talk about race, it's always from this place of, like, how bad it is.
There's also a lot of places that are doing things right and a lot of people who are doing things right as well.
Are whites, in your opinion, who are non-racists, are they afraid to say the way that they really feel about race and being white?
I believe it is uncomfortable for older people. I'm 28, Hispanic and have black, white, Asian friends. We do not see our color. If anything, our parents put colors into our heads and race in our heads as well. What do you think of that, the two of you, Maria and David, and also you, Leonard?
Thank you.
Do you think that private conversations about race are different between blacks than they are between whites and that they are between Latinos?
You mean blacks talking to blacks about race and whites...
Oh, of course they are. Of course they are.
I think there is less - I would know what they are - well, I would know from personal experience, because I'm been among African- Americans, hearing African-Americans talk about race in ways that they never would among whites. I've had many whites confide to me via email and the Internet on the column the way that they talk about race with one another versus the way that they talk about it in public.
I get told things that I know would never be said in public by people, which tells me that we're talking about basically two sets of discussions going on. But I wanted to go back to the - I believe it was the email person who said - or the person who sent the email, that said that essentially this is a problem of the old, and the young people sort of have it all figured out.
And that amused me greatly because I remember thinking the same thing when I was a young person.
When I was in college, and I, you know, for the first - I grew up in segregated Los Angeles, and I went to college, and I suddenly had all these white friends. You know, I think of them as sort of these good-natured, shaggy-haired white guys, and we were all beyond all of that.
Race was something that our parents were hung up on, but we were concerned about things that were - and here's a '70s word for you - relevant - okay, and race wasn't one of those things. We were so far beyond it.
And frankly, I look back on that from the vantage point of 20, 30 years later and think, one, how naïve I was, and two, how, you know, we have really not moved the goalpost.
We've moved, we've made changes, but we really haven't moved it as far as we would like to think we have. And I think that it's sort of dangerous to sort of leave this or to embrace this idea that the kids will work it out because what happens is that the kids invariably grow up to be us.
I would say that some of them certainly are. I mean, here's the thing that we seem to forget. Racism or bigotry or whatever you want to call it is not the unique property of any one species of God's children. You know, we all have this lizard-like capacity to dislike people based on the fact that they look differently than us, than they love differently than us, that they live some place that we don't live, that they are - speak differently than us, whatever, whatever.
The only difference and the thing that people fail to understand is when - when my white readers talk to me about how - black racism against them, one of the questions that I always want to ask them is, and can you tell me how that has impacted upon your quality of life in the large scale? Nine times out of 10, they cannot. If you ask a black person how white racism has impacted upon their life, they're going to talk about the police that pulled over for no reason. They're going to talk about the loan they didn't get. They're going to talk about being racially profiled in the store, et cetera, et cetera. And this is - this doesn't mean that, you know, that one group is better than the other. What it means is that one group is larger than the other and has access to the levers of power, so that when there is racism they can encode that racism in the structure of the society. That's all that it means.
Thank you.
I actually want to go back to something that Mr. Gergen said because I think he touched on something very important. He was talking about the fact that so many people take it for granted that African- American and Latino kids are ineducable, and that this feeling persists, even in the light of empirical proof that this is wrong. I think when he says that, what he does is he hits on sort of a very fundamental truth about why we still have trouble with race in this country. We tend to make our decisions and tend to base our perceptions on caricature, which is impervious to fact.
I've been writing in my column recently, about the drug war and about the fact that the overwhelming majority of drug users and drug dealers in this country, statistically, are white. And it is so difficult to get that past people's filters, because in our minds and the popular imagination the, quote, unquote, "drug user and drug dealer" are some black kids on a corner in Baltimore.
That's not the common - or the most common picture. But we have these caricatures, these, sort of, narratives in our head that we are absolutely stuck on and invested in. And we got to get beyond those before we're going to make any kind of progress.
God bless America.
Thank you.
They would be in an uproar. Even, I believe, if he said that he was biracial. The thing - two things. I'll try to make these points very quickly. One, we're all biracial to some degree in this country. I mean, that's just the history. My great, great grandmother was Irish or - whatever that does for me. The other thing is that I think that what Barack Obama has done, like a lot of people of black and white heritage, is make the calculation, which side of this heritage defines how I'm treated in the world. And he's obviously made a choice that it's the brown - that it's the African-American side.
Oh, certainly.

I hope so.
No. You know, that's the point that I tried to make in my - in the column that you referenced; was that he looked at this boy, and he did not see a boy. He saw, you know, he didn't see a boy, you know, coming home from 7-Eleven. He saw a threat. He saw, I think, the sum of all his fears. The things that he saw were more reflective of, you know, what was in his head and what was in his soul, rather than were reflective of what I think Trayvon Martin was probably doing, you know, on that street, you know, walking home. It's just a total cognitive disconnect. And what's frustrating, you know, is that that disconnect is still with us 60 years after Ellison wrote "The Invisible Man."
I've had that - I didn't have to have the discussion about how to behave around white people 'cause I grew up in South L.A. and there were no white people - with the exception of teachers and police officers. But I have had similar discussions with my kids and in particular, my sons when I was teaching them to drive. There was a specific part of the lesson which was, OK, this is how to behave when you're pulled over - not if, but when you're pulled over.
And it really - you know, I really resented having to give them that lesson. They were kind of confused by it, and I resented it. Now, you know, we're 10 years and more beyond my teaching them how to drive, and they're no longer confused by it because they're stopped on a regular basis. But it was really - it really angered me and frustrated me to have to add this, you know, this particular lesson to what is otherwise a right of passage that all parents have, you know, have had to experience in teaching their kids how to drive.
Yeah, much has improved. But I think that we get in trouble - excuse me - when we believe that those improvements have, you know, brought us to - as Dr. King, you know, said in his famous speech - the promised land. I think that, you know, it's important to recognize and to honor improvement, but also important to recognize and understand that there is a long way yet to go.
And I think this is where we get in trouble, in terms of quantifying racial progress. Some of us want to fixate on how far we have come, to the exclusion of how far we have yet to go, while others, you know, fixate on the other. And the fact of the matter is that if you want to get a true picture of that progress, you cannot have one without the other.
Ha, I'm just glad to know I'm not alone. It is a strange and rare day when I haven't been called a racist, you know, half a dozen times. And I've come to understand that this is sort of - for a lot of people, particularly, a lot of people - you know, unfortunately - on the political right, this is sort of a political judo, a little - a political jujitsu; taking away the word, or trying to render the word unusable - much in the way that the word feminist was rendered unusable to the point that, you know, a lot of young women refuse to identify themselves in that way; much in the way the word liberal was made into a dirty word.
Now, we're after the word racist. And there is statistical evidence - and I forget the exact number, but it was somewhere in the vicinity of 50 percent of white Americans now feeling that the greatest racism in America comes from African-Americans. Which would be amusing, you know, if it did not have real-world consequences; if that sort of thing did not have real-world consequences. What makes it amusing is that there is no statistical standard by which you can illustrate, or prove, that ridiculous thesis. And yet, as long as people are emotionally wedded to it, as long as they are invested to it, then you have to, you know, treat it as a reality.
You have to deal with the fact that, as my readers have told me frequently, talking about racism - which is something I do fairly frequently - talking about racism is racist. I don't hear that when, you know - they don't talk about, you know, police brutality as being racist. They don't talk about economic, you know, disparity as being racist. They don't talk about criminal injustice system as being racist, But they will talk - they will explicitly say that talking about race is racist, which is an incredibly frustrating thing to experience.
My pleasure. Thanks for having me.
