Thank you,      Scott.
The president called Abu Mazen a man of courage.  Why is that      important?  It's because the president took a look at Abu Mazen when he      was prime minister under Arafat and basically made the decision that he      wasn't worth investing in.  So the fact that the president labeled him a      man of courage was, I think, an indication that in this visit, Abu Mazen      convinced him that he was serious about using his democratic mandate.      Second thing he did was to commit to sending the secretary of State out      there.  The fact that Condoleezza Rice is being sent out there is, I      think, an important manifestation of the president's commitment to see      this process through beyond the Gaza disengagement itself.
I can assure you that the signal was loud and clear in the      prime minister's office in Jerusalem.  That language that you read out,      Scott, is not going to be welcome there because it makes clear that      Jerusalem is in play from the point of view of the president of the      United States.  When Ariel Sharon comes here, as he did at Crawford, as      he did before Jewish audiences this last week, he makes it manifestly      clear that his position is that Jerusalem is the eternal, undivided      capital of Israel.  And indeed, I think what he has been doing with the      expansion of Ma'ale Adumim, this big city on the outskirts of Jerusalem      in the West Bank, is in effect designed to substitute greater Israel      which I think he's basically given up on for greater Jerusalem.
I think what Israelis are looking for is for Abu Mazen to      move in behind the Israeli army and the settlers as they come out of Gaza      and establish order there.  If they see that, then that will do a lot to      enhance Abu Mazen's credibility as a partner for the next step.  For the      Israelis, it's always come down to an issue of security.  Secondly, I      think it's very important.  There needs to be greater granularity in      terms of something that the American president spells out as to what two      states living in peace actually looks like for both sides, for the kind      of painful steps that will be have to be taken to reach that final state      of an independent, democratic Palestinian contiguous state living in      peace alongside a secure Jewish state of Israel.
Thank you.

What's critically important is that he say publicly - and more to his government than to the United States government - that there is not going to be provocative acts in Jerusalem, whether it be new zoning approvals or demolitions of Palestinian housing or evictions of Palestinian families, while we're focused on these indirect talks. That's critically important here.
Well, not easily. But I think it's important to look at the composition of the coalition. The Sephardi religious party SHAS, whose minister was responsible for this particular, egregious zoning decision last week, had not committed to holding onto the West Bank. They're much more politicians trying to meet the needs of their constituency's religious Jews who, in particular, have housing needs. They have large families. And so if they build in West Jerusalem rather than East Jerusalem, it's not that important.
Then there's Yvette Lieberman, who heads up this Russian immigrant party. He's the foreign minister. But he's actually a radical territorial compromiser, because he wants to separate Israel from the Arabs. And so he's ready to give up a lot of the West Bank, and he's also ready to give up the Arab suburbs of East Jerusalem. Bibi's big problem is within his own party. The Benny Begins and the Boogie Yahaloms don't believe in giving up the West Bank.
And there are people to the right of them within his own party. That's the challenge that Bibi has. But the reality is, they have nowhere else to go. If he decides to be a statesman, he has a safety net of the center and the left that will support him. And he has these other parties that will go along. So I think he's in a much stronger position than anybody like Yitzhak Rabin or Ehud Barak, who come from the left, had when they tried to make territorial concessions in order to achieve peace.
My sense of Bibi, from working closely with him some time ago, was that he was much more a Republican - that is, a genuine conservative - than he was a Likudnic. He's a fairly pragmatic politician. And so if you ask me what's at his core, it's a conservatism. It's a kind of Thatcher-ite, Reaganism. But I don't see that it's a commitment to a Judean Sumeria.
But when he goes home at night, it's a different story. And there, his father and even his wife and his wife's brother - who's got some headlines today criticizing the United States - the hevra, the people he lives with, are hard-line, Zionist, right-wing ideologues who don't believe in making concessions to the Arabs, and don't believe in giving up territory.
I'm not sure. I tend to think that he will try to get it behind him because the politician in Bibi knows that the Israeli people will not reward him, the next time he may have to go to elections, for mishandling the relationship with the United States. Especially not now, in circumstances where Israel needs the United States to deal with its existential threat from Iran. He understands that it's not a good idea to get into a fight with the United States.
Thank you, Robert.

Pleasure, Scott. Thanks for having me.
Well, from the clip that you played, what's interesting is the way the president emphasized that he wanted to work with the prime minister, the government and the people of Israel. I think for the last 18 months we've had a bit of a tussle between the president and the prime minister, both kind of working against each other rather than working with each other.
And I think that what the president is signaling is that they've both come to recognize that their individual purposes - the president's desire to try to make peace between Israel and the Palestinians and establish an independent Palestinian state alongside Israel, and the prime minister's concern to get the president fully onboard his efforts to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons - that on those two key objectives, which they share in common, they need to work together.
The reference to the Israeli public was underscored by the way in which the president then went out after the meeting and did a number of interviews culminating with a television interview with Israel's main television station. This is the first time he's addressed the Israeli public in 18 months. It's been a terrible omission. He's basically lost the Israeli public, who would otherwise be supportive of him if only he'd tell them what he was trying to do. And finally he's doing that, and I think that's long overdue and a positive development.
Indeed. He underscored that he's ready to take risks for peace, which was exactly Yitzhak Rabin's formula back in the early '90s when he decided to make peace. So, yes, I think he strove to take on that mantle of peacemaker. He didn't really make much of Iran, even though Iran is much more on his mind. And I think that this is a recognition on his part that there's a mood shift in Israel - not that noticeable from here but I've just been in Israel and I felt it very strongly, that the public was really shocked at the way in which the whole world seemed to turn against it over the flotilla crisis.
And they really felt in a corner and wondering what lay ahead in their future with this effort to delegitimize Israel and delegitimize its use of force as well. And I think there's a public mood of wanting their leadership to take an initiative, to try to use politics and not just force. And I think the prime minister is responding to that.
Yes. I hope I don't sound like Pollyanna here, but taking the long view - and I've lived through it very closely - particularly the outbreak of the intifada was when I was ambassador in Israel back in October 2000 - and see over the 10 years, almost 10 years, that, you know, the most horrendous violence, terrorism and killing of innocents on both sides, that on both sides now the violence has come way down, almost nonexistent.
The Palestinian Authority is policing the territory under its control. Hamas, for its own reasons, in Gaza is policing its territory and preventing rocket attacks on Israel. The Palestinians, I think, are tired of war and the Israelis understand that they need to find a way out of their own existential dilemmas.
And this creates an environment in which the Israelis have stopped settlement activities, stopped provocative activity in Jerusalem, the Palestinian president and prime minister are declaring day-in and day-out that they want to make peace. They're trying to act as responsible partners.
So, you have a circumstance which you haven't had for 10 years in which it's just possible that the combination of war weariness and a sense that the alternatives are far worse might just create circumstances in which the leaders, if they are statesmen - and that remains to be tested - could actually do a deal.
We are the indispensible partner. They can't get to an agreement without us. But they are the ones that have to make the ultimate decisions. I'm fond of quoting Shimon Peres, the president of Israel, who says that history is a horse that gallops past your window. And the true act of a statesman is to jump from the window onto that galloping horse.
Well, what the president of the United States can do with his aides is get that horse galloping past the window. But ultimately it comes down to whether Bibi Netanyahu and Abu Mazen are prepared to do a difficult thing, which is jump from the window onto that galloping horse.
Thank you, Scott.

Well, the essential difference lies in a symmetry between a superpower and a regional power. The United States has more than 5,000 nuclear weapons in its arsenal. We are a continental power. Iran is a long way away. And from an American perspective, we could afford to be not a lot more relaxed but a little more relaxed around Iran's approaching the nuclear weapons threshold than Israel can. It lives in a very dangerous neighborhood. Iran has repeatedly threatened to wipe it off the map, and Israel has a nonproliferation policy all of its own, which is essentially they will not allow another country in its neighborhood to acquire nuclear weapons. They've taken out the Osirak nuclear reactor, they took out the Syrian plutonium reactor, and they are now threatening to do exactly the same with Iran, because as Iran approaches the threshold of nuclear weapons capability, they see it as an existential threat. And there's no prime minister, whether it's the current one or any other one that would responsibly carry out his duty as the elected leader of the country and allow a country as threatening as Iran to acquire nuclear weapons capability, the means of destroying the Jewish state yet again.
Yeah. I think the key thing is that Iran is moving with all deliberate speed towards what's called this nuclear weapons threshold. That is to say that it will have, before long, a stockpile of material that can be quickly enriched to weapons-grade material. They are now enriching to 20 percent. To get from 20 percent to 90 percent, which would be weapons-grade uranium, can be done relatively quickly - in a matter of three to six months. We know that they have been working on triggers for exploding that weapons-grade material as a nuclear bomb. We know that they have the means to deliver it. And so they're moving on all those fronts simultaneously in a way that leaves no doubt about their intentions. For the Israelis, they don't want to wait until they get to that threshold.
Well, essentially we're now in a vicious cycle. In order to calm the Israelis down and get them to back away from their intense interest in taking care of the program militarily, we are ratcheting up sanctions that essentially are aimed at Iran's economic jugular. We are doing that on the theory that the more pressure we put on them, the more we bring their economy to its knees, the more likely the Iranians are to cry uncle, to blink, to say, OK, we'll negotiate meaningful curbs on our nuclear program.
So, we're trying to drive them to the negotiating table. The problem is the kinds of pressure that we're putting on them, actually I fear convinces the Iranian regime that we're actually trying to bring down the regime. And the more they feel that we're trying to bring down the regime, the more likely they are to want to acquire nuclear weapons capabilities. So, they keep on pressing forward. The more they keep on pressing forward, the more Israelis get nervous and the more we say calm down, we'll ratchet up the sanctions, which then has the effect of convincing the Iranians that the best thing they can do is go for it. And so that vicious cycle is one that is now operative. And unless somebody blinks, I'm afraid it's going to lead to a confrontation.
And thank you for having me.

Thanks very much for having me.
Actually, I think potentially quite a lot has changed. It's not very visible to the eye as yet. The fact that this cease-fire has held so quickly and that all of the different militant factions in Gaza seem to be adhering to it, or at least that Hamas is able to get them to adhere to it, strikes me as quite positive.
But beyond that, there's the new role of the Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi, and under his guidance Egyptian intelligence, which essentially have brokered this deal, and the United States really didn't play that much of a role. And he's become responsible for it. He's done a few other things after that which are highly problematic, but in this context he's helping to preserve the peace with Israel rather than to disrupt it.
And I think that if he continues to play that role, that's a positive development. Beyond that, there's a - there's the fact that Hamas is essentially taking on responsibility for policing a cease-fire, stopping attacks on Israel. And on the Israeli side, the right-wing government of Bibi Netanyahu exercised restraint.
And I know that may sound hard to believe given the amount of destruction involved, but if there'd been a ground invasion, the destruction would have been far worse, and the problems for both sides would have been far worse in terms of loss of life and damage and damage to Israel's international reputation on the other side.
And the fact that the prime minister exercised restraint and has had to justify that restraint to his right wing and is doing so and survives it and has the foreign minister, the hardliner Avigdor Lieberman, also supporting this policy of restraint - I mean, bear in mind that this is a government that has in its platform an agreement to topple the Hamas government in Gaza, and they made a conscious decision not to do that, suggests that maybe, just maybe out of this, Hamas and a right-wing government in Israel can find a way to do business without fighting each other.
Yes, well, I would say one of the - probably the biggest casualty in political terms is the Palestinian Authority, that of course controls the West Bank but has no control or influence in Gaza and therefore was completely sidelined by the conflict of the last week.
And now it's going to make a bid for greater salience by going to the U.N. this week on Thursday, November 29th. They'll be seeking a vote in the U.N. General Assembly for non-member statehood status. That vote will certainly pass by a majority, and they will have that to show, but it's not much when the reality of a lack of a solution that they have been promoting for well nigh, what, 20 years now through the Oslo process, is something that looks dead and simply non-viable, whereas the government of Israel is working, albeit indirectly through the Egyptians with Hamas and making concessions to them in terms of easing the siege that are a direct consequence of the use of force.
So you've got a stark difference between those who argue for peace with Israel who have been policing the West Bank, and they seem to be losing out in this game.
Possibly, but it's going to take some time. But let me just quickly say something about the Internet and Twitter. It was rather interesting this time around that the Israel Defense Forces actually used the Twitter in particular to communicate with the people of Gaza, both to communicate threats and to communicate warnings about where they needed to evacuate from.
And this was I think a novel use of the medium, not one that anybody expected, but actually served a purpose which leads me to believe that they don't want to shut down Gaza's Internet service, they'd prefer to use it that way. As for the prospects for a negotiated settlement, I think one of the big problems with the negotiations or the lack of them is the fact that on the Palestinian side there hasn't been a unified actor since Hamas took over Gaza and the split in the Palestinian polity is something that is opposed by the Palestinian people but - and it definitely weakens their position in any negotiation because the Israelis reasonably say, well, who are we going to negotiate with on these issues.
And so Palestinian unity, particularly between Fatah and Hamas, is in some ways a necessary precondition for a meaningful negotiation to take place. Will this latest crisis lay the foundations for a reconciliation between Hamas and Fatah? It seems to me doubtful given what we've already discussed about winners and losers. But the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood leadership clearly has this in mind. They've made it very clear that they want to come out of the cease-fire arrangements into an effort at reconciliation.
And if Hamas can be persuaded that its future lies in acting as a government rather than as a terrorist organization or they would call themselves resistance organization lies through feeding the people rather than fighting Israel, then it may be possible to work out an arrangement where Hamas becomes part of the PLO and the PLO has a unified act that goes into negotiations with Israel, and that would be a positive development.
Yes, very much so but not exactly in the way that the questioner put it. I think if you go back to the early '90s, Iran has used the Palestinian problem as a way of projecting its influence into the Middle East heartland and through support for Hezbollah, Hamas and in particular Palestinian Islamic Jihad, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Iranian al-Quds Force, they have managed to present themselves as the supporters and defenders of the, you know, of militancy and terrorism, an argument that violence and rejectionism is the way to liberate Palestine. And that has got them a long way in terms of asserting their influence in what is an Arab-Israeli rather than a Persian-Israeli issue. And they - it's a long arm of Iran that reaches across to Hezbollah in Lebanon and through Sudan up through the Sinai they're arming the Palestinians in Gaza as well.
Part of that effort beyond their interest in asserting their claim to dominance in the Arab Middle East is to deter Israel from attacking them. The provision of something like 50,000 rockets to Hezbollah in Lebanon and these longer-range Fajr-5 missiles to Hamas in Gaza and Palestine's Islamic Jihad is all part of a way of telling Iranians to - telling the Israelis don't dare hit us because we can hit your population centers from these areas very close to you. And the fact that the...
Indeed. And the fact that the Israelis have found answers to that both offensively and defensively reduces the deterrent that the Iranians have been trying to build.
Thank you.

Thank you. Nice to be with you.
The administration is not say saying that but I'm sure it feels it. And it has been expressed most recently by Rahm Emanuel when he was at an event that we hosted, the Sarbonne Forum; it got a lot of publicity because he made it clear that he thought it was ingratitude. But then, he's the mayor of Chicago, not the chief of staff of the White House.
But I do think that there is a feeling that it's not just that this Israeli government takes actions that create a problem for the United States, but that this Israeli government is always coming to Washington for help, particularly in the case of the U.N. vote. And yet, they don't give the administration anything to work with and they do these kinds of things which make it even more difficult for the United States to defend Israel.
Well, I think that the fact that elections are coming up in mid-January is what is determining Netanyahu's behavior at the moment. Henry Kissinger famously said that Israel doesn't have a foreign policy, it only has domestic politics. Well, that's especially the case at this moment and Bibi is playing to his right-wing. He's got a challenge from his right-wing. There is a right-wing religious party that is taking votes away from him. And the best way he can boost his support is by doing what the right-wing cares about, which is more settlement activity.
I think that it will depend very much on the outcome of the Israeli elections and what happens in the dynamic between Fatah and Hamas, these two wings of the Palestinian movement. But at the moment, I think that President Obama - looking out at his second term priorities - is not likely to make it a priority in the way that he did the first term, because it doesn't look like he's got anybody to work with on either side. I suspect we'll leave them to their own devices until they come to him and say we really do want to make a deal.
I think there's certainly a great deal of tumult and it's exacerbated not only by all of the things that you just mentioned but, of course, the looming confrontation over Iran's nuclear weapons program, where the United States and the P5 Plus-1 Pals, I think, will put down an offer, fairly generous offer to test Iran's intentions.
But if Iranians don't take it up and continue to enrich the uranium and stockpile it, it could get to the point where mid-year or maybe in the fall we're headed for a confrontation there. So, yes, you could have all of these things coming together in a kind of perfect, horrible storm.
Thank you, Robert.

Thank you Robert.
No, I don't think I misjudged his reluctance, I think he's a reluctant warrior in this regard. What happened was, he tried for a cease-fire and the rockets still came down on Tel Aviv, Jerusalem and other parts of Southern Israel. So, he stepped it up a notch by moving in, but making clear he's just going after the tunnels in the vicinity of the border. But it's a slippery slope and I don't see the rockets stopping, in fact there are more today and I'm afraid that Netanyahu is going to be faced with the question of either, do we move in and try to put more pressure on Hamas or do we sustain this rocket fire and I'm afraid that he's going to have to have to go in further.
Right. Well, they can certainly define some goals, like destroying the rocket piles wherever they can find them, toppling Hamas's control of Gaza. But all of those goals will involve a high, high cost, both in civilian casualties. Already we see them mounting on the Palestinian side, including women and children. There'll be a lot more because Hamas is in heavily populated areas in Gaza. And of course the Israelis will start to take more significant casualties and so I think there's a whole world of hurt ahead of them and that's why I still believe that he's doing this reluctantly. And the question becomes, how do you stop Hamas from firing the rockets?
A fine mess indeed. And you describe it quite well. I think the relationship between  Abu Mazen and Bibi Netanyahu, ironically, is improving in the midst of this crisis. Because they share a common antipathy towards Hamas and people have probably forgotten by now that Hamas actually gave over governance to the Palestinian Authority just before this whole crisis broke out. So, his role is going to be important. The Egyptian role is going to be important, they've put a cease-fire proposal on the table. You know, Hamas wants to negotiate the details before the cease-fire, the Egyptians are saying, we'll negotiate the details after the cease-fire, that's the stuff of diplomacy, Robert. The critical question is, is Hamas ready to stop firing those rockets and unfortunately the sense at the moment - that the answer to that is no.
No, I don't think so. I mean it's like saying it's better not to try at all, than to try and fail. And I've never subscribed to that credo, it's, you know, the Secretary warned repeatedly that the alternative to making peace was this kind of chronic conflict, with its eruptions and horrendous consequences. And we were trying to resolve the conflict. I don't think there were high expectations on either side that we would succeed. I think that we were right to try, that people will come out of this conflict and will say, we are right to try again and we will once the parties are ready.
Thank you Robert.
