Unfortunately, I think that Michael J. Fox has really been a hero to so many Americans in what has happened to him, and we've seen the degenerative nature of his disease. I think it's painful for all of us to watch.
But Mr. Fox put himself in the political discourse when he shot spots in Missouri and in Maryland and a couple of other states around the country talking about stem cell research. I think if you listen to what Mr. Fox actually said, as it relates to Mr. Talent's record, I think his comments are a little bit misleading. He suggests, Mr. Fox does, that Mr. Talent is against stem cell research, and that is just not true.
Senator Talent is against a particular form of embryonic stem cell research, which would destroy embryos. And Mr. Fox does not mention that in that 30-second television spot.
But looking at what Mr. Limbaugh had to say, I think, again, it's unfortunate. Mr. Limbaugh said that either Mr. Fox had not taken his medication or was exaggerating or acting for the benefit of the cameras. Mr. Limbaugh apologized. I think that is not a proper course of action for one who is such a powerful commentator to be saying on television when there are so many millions of Americans who suffer from the disease.
But fair or unfair, Mr. Fox put himself in a political crosshairs when he cut those spots for television.
I don't think it's a bad ad. I agree with what my colleague said earlier. When you run for public office and you put yourself in the public light; if you film political television spots where you're in a church and you hold yourself out to high moral values and high moral character and then you attend a party in Jacksonville, Florida, a Super Bowl party hosted by Playboy magazine; I think that if you're an official in the public light, it allows certain individuals to criticize or to question your morality choices.
But looking at the broader racial overtones, I think this is a tempest in a teapot and much ado about nothing. To suggest that a blonde woman saying I met Harold Ford at a Playboy party somehow has racial overturns or is racist, which has been so much of the discourse for the last couple of days, I think is ridiculous.
In my opinion, it is equally racist to suggest that if a particular person who is Caucasian says I met Harold Ford at a party is racist. Are individuals then saying that it should've been an African-American woman saying that or Hispanic woman? I think this is much ado about nothing. But right or wrong, Mr. Ford has put himself in the crosshairs by holding himself up to be a strong moral character, and then attending that party and - at Playboy party - and then allowing his opponents the opportunity to criticize him.
And I have to just, very briefly, respectfully respond to that in my reading of history. It is - I think your statement, candidly, is a little bit disingenuous. If there are those individuals in Tennessee who are not going to vote for an African-American man for the United States Senate based on a woman in a television spot, I think that's silly. You know (unintelligible) -excuse me -
Excuse me.
I'll make…
Fine. I - fine. I will make the distinction. I'm suggesting, however, that if individuals are racist and not going to vote for African-American man in the United States Senate, I suspect that their minds have already been made up to this point and not based on one single ad with one blonde woman.
Armstrong Williams was a case of poor judgment. In full disclosure, he should have let it be known to his listeners, to his client base that in fact he had taken money from the Department of Education and to act as a surrogate or to act for publicity purposes. And I think that the condemnation from the public is well deserved.
As it relates to Neil Bush and Ignite!, No Child Left Behind gives money to the states to establish curriculum for math and for reading for middle school children, primarily. And I think that those funds are best left to the states to determine which programs, which companies, which deliverers of services are best in a position to fulfill the requirements of No Child Left Behind. So I think there's a distinction. And from what I've been able to save thus far, there's nothing wrong with what Neil Bush has done and what the Bush family has done here.
Thank you.

Well, it's very interesting. First of all, the American people have spoken last night, and they're very angry with the Republicans. And looking at what has happened over the last night it will be very interesting to hear what politicians from both parties hear.
Will the Democrats hear from the American people that they have a mandate to use the subpoena power to go after the administration and to really become a confrontational party to the Republicans? And also what will the Republicans hear? Will they recognize that their conservative principles that they came into power on were not followed? We had a lot of scandals, so what will they hear?
But to answer your question most directly, I do believe that Charlie Rangel and many of the other Democrats who will assume the gavels in the House of Representatives will make the president's life very difficult over the next two years.
I think it is going to go down to the wire. It's going to be extremely tight. I did work for George Allen. I was his deputy policy director during this first bid for the United States Senate back in 2000, and the demographics of the commonwealth of Virginia have really changed.
Six years ago, when he was first running for the Senate, Loudoun County, just a little bit away from Washington, D.C., was a solid Republican area. Now that you look at the outlying areas near Washington, D.C. and Virginia, Loudoun County, some parts of Fairfax County, Prince William Counties, areas where the Republicans consistently thought were their strongholds are now increasingly going to the Democrats.
So for George Allen to prevail in this very, very narrow contest, he's going to have to have to very well in northern Virginia for some of these recounts and it's going to be extremely, extremely close.
Wow. I think that the initiative process has worked across the country and continues to work when people either at the federal level or at the state level fail to enact particular legislation that the people want.
But looking at Ward Connerly in particular, I found his comments relating to the Klan to be very offensive. The Ku Klux Klan is not an equal rights or an equal opportunity organization. They would kill African Americans, people of the Jewish faith and other individuals based specifically on their religious or their ethnic identity. And to hearken to the Klan for any sort of support for a ballot initiative I think is obscene.
If the people in Michigan have decided that they want to support a particular initiative, that's fine for the people of Michigan but keep the Klan out of it.
Thanks, Farai.

I think it is too much to ask too soon. The Constitution of the United States provides the Congress with the ability to authorize war, but it gives the president of the United States the ability to wage that war as commander in chief.
I think if you look at a date certain for pullout in 2007, I think that would be extraordinarily dangerous to all the progress that has gone on overseas in Iraq. And if you look at history, Farai, I think one of the things about what Senator Obama had to say that struck me is if you look at World War II and the number of the years and sadly the number of thousands of American soldiers who lost their lives defending their country. If Barack Obama, Senator Obama is looking at 2,900 lives and saying that it's a catastrophic failure and we need to leave, I think it shows a lack of sophistication at looking at the history of the United States and the struggles of winning a very, very difficult war.
Well, I actually agree with most of what E.R. had to say. Certainly, I think that our prison officials are trying to save lives and to make prison, a very difficult situation, as safe as possible.
I discussed this with my wife who is a federal probation officer for almost eight years, and she said that for many years there was not an acknowledgement that either homosexual activity was taking place in the prisons or that there were rapes that were taking place.
Now I think that this discussion is out on the table and folks are talking about it. This report discusses it in great length. But what my wife said that I agree with is that the money that would be spent for condoms should be better used for, one, looking at HIV tests when inmates are coming into prisons so that we can segregate people who already have the HIV strain once they arrive in the prison system.
And two, that money could also be utilized for better surveillance and in increasing the salary of the prison guards so that we can cut down - again, having sex in prison is not a right. Inmates are not allowed to drink alcohol. They are not allowed to smoke cigarettes to the best extent possible.
Why don't we utilize these funds so that we can have better surveillance and to test people for HIV and look at different ways to cut down on that disease transmission in prison.
Correct.
That's right. There's no easy answer. But I do think that we need to take more steps when inmates are being processed to ascertain what the extent of the problem is. It's that we discussed at the top of the segment. For goodness' sakes, 13 percent of the American population is African-American but 40 percent of our prison population is African-American. We need to take solid steps. I think this report is forcing us to have a debate and have a discussion, and that's what we should be doing.
I don't know. It sort of sounds like the old adage ignorance is bliss; now we're saying, you know ignorance of life beyond your world makes you happy. I think that…
I think you're right. I think the pressure today on so many of our young children is to gain as much wealth to look like the picture-perfect model and to achieve these materialistic assets. And that puts a lot of pressure on people, and you have to go to the right school and you have to go the right college, and you have to be wearing the right clothes.
Whereas if perhaps - and again I'm just generalizing - if you're in a situation where you're in a developing nation or you spend a lot more time bonding with your family and surviving and slowly moving up the strata, I think that your happiness is derived on your interactions with your loved ones and your families; as opposed to in the States and Japan and Britain and so many of these other countries where so much pressure is placed on our young children, and young girls in particular, of looking the right way or dressing the right way or being a certain way. And if you don't fit in, oh my goodness, what amount of pressure that puts on you.
Thank you, Farai.

Same here.
Well, it's a tragedy. There's no question about it. On September 11th, 2001, nearly 3,000 innocent Americans lost their lives as they went about their everyday activities.
As a result to that the United States went to war, and unfortunately our military men and women have lost their lives, nearly 3,000, and the casualty figures, you've pointed out, is over 20,000. Every casualty is a terrible tragedy, but these brave men and women who put on the uniform are trying to protect this country, trying to ensure that we don't have another terrorist attack and trying to preserve our way of life. And they understand the risks and they understand that they could be seriously injured or that they could ultimately pay the ultimate sacrifice with their own lives.
But we need to do everything that we can, Farai, once they return home, to do the proper rehabilitation and to really assimilate them back in society. And it's our incumbent responsibility to take care of these brave men and women who are taking care of us.
Well, I actually -
Actually, the intervention in Iraq was authorized in September of 2001, shortly after the September 11th, 2001 attacks, in which Congress gave the president of the United States the use of military force to ferret out those who had harmed us. Saddam Hussein, as everyone knows, was a terrorist to his own people. He used weapons of mass destructions against people in the northern part of Iraq, against the Kurds.
He was someone who brutalized thousands of people, mass rapes, mass shootings, mass graves. He posed a threat to the United States and to the Western world because he was proliferating weapons of mass destruction. President Clinton believed that to be true. President Bush believed that to be true. Many leaders around the world believed that to be true.
Now while it is in fact true…
While it is, in fact, excuse me, true that weapons of mass destructions were not found in Iraq after the United States interceded, it is still in the best interest of this country and still in the best interest of I believe the democratic world that this terrible dictator was removed from power.
That's not what I said, Michael.
You know. I said there was a monitor…
No, it is not what I implied, Michael.
Listen to what I said. I said (unintelligible)…
There was the authorization of military force of the United States…
…Congress, which is a true fact. I suggest you go look it up on the Internet.
And the United States Congress was uninformed…
…and misinformed?
Well, in my beloved home state of California you're never sure what you're going get. And we have a new statute on the books, as you pointed out, that deals with teens riding in the trunks of cars. There was a tragedy that involved a fatality there. But I think it's a good thing. I think it's good when the citizen legislatures around the United States come together and they look to the specific needs in their localities and their communities and they enact statutes to try to take care of some of their local constituents.
North Carolina is just one of them. The citizens of North Carolina decided that they needed to have a hike in the minimum wage. I think that's a good thing when people come together in those local legislatures and decide what's best for the new year for their new citizens, and for citizens, young and old alike.
I think that was a good point.
Happy New Year.

I think, looking at where we are right now and fighting and waging and winning the war on terrorism, that the United States government needs to have all the tools at its disposal to fight and win that war on terrorism. And one of those of course is a controversial program to eavesdrop on terrorist suspects who are here in the United States or those who are placing calls abroad.
I would point out, however, in the news today there was an article saying that the administration is now willing to turn over the authority to these FISA courts, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act courts, to look at surveillance cases.
So, I think that we have to maintain a check and balance in our government. We must maintain that because that's what the Constitution calls for, and I couldn't imagine the attorney general of the United States saying that judges or the judiciary branch should defer to the will of the executive branch without leaving those checks and balances in place.
Well, if you look further at what the attorney general had said, he also said that we should not have activist judges who are injecting their personal opinions in the court proceedings, which I absolutely agree with. So it's a matter of interpretation or opinion, and I absolutely believe that judges should be evenhanded regardless of their political philosophy and not to inject their personal beliefs on the bench. But we must maintain a separation of power between the three branches.
Well, FEMA, unfortunately, in looking at providing disastrous assistance at the local level, has been a little shaky and wobbly at best. We've seen millions of dollars that have gone out improperly, that have been wasted, that have been abused and have not been properly applied.
But if you're looking at students at a particular university - and we've all been away to school, and you're in your school dormitory for most of the year. You're not living with your parents or your relatives back home. That's your primary residence. And it seems to me that if the qualifications for receiving this assistance were you were in your primary residence, and that's the case apparently being asserted here that the students were in their primary residence. I agree with Marcelo, that the FEMA ought to look at this on a case-by-case basis.
But coming to students after the fact, after they have completed the application - it's up to the FEMA official, once these applications are received, to look to see whether or not these students are qualified. And if they deemed that they are qualified and gave the money out and that was their primary domicile, it seems to me a little bit of adding insult to injury to come back to these kids and say, oops, it was our bad. So give us the money back, even though this was your residence.
So, FEMA needs to look at this on a case-by-case basis, but they've got to get their act together as far as dispersing federal resources because we just don't have enough dollars to go around. And it seems that we want to make sure our students are the ones - and those who are hardest hit by Hurricane Katrina -receive the assistance they need.
I think that's true. "Grey's Anatomy" is one of my favorite TV shows, and it does have a very diverse and a very rich cast. And they should leave the drama to the set and keep their own personal opinions and their personal thoughts to themselves. And I agree with Yvonne. We don't know what happened. It was a he said, she said incident on the set of the show, and none of us were there and know what happened.
But it seems to me that these people need to be cognizant of the fact that they're very highly paid, that they are role models to many in our community, and that they need to grow up and get over it and get along.
Nice to be with you.

It's nice to join you today.
I don't know what speech your good professor was listening to. I thought the president took the rostrum last night under very difficult circumstances, delivered a very well-written, very well-crafted set of remarks. And I think he extended the proper olive branch to the Democrat Party and recognized that we're a divided government and that we all need to work together and to find solutions not on this side or that side of the aisle, but we need to cross the aisle to find ways that we can advance the American people's agenda. I thought it was very well done.
I think in the opening piece from Senator Norm Coleman last night in Statuary Hall where he said that, you know, the president had a tough road to hoe and that Senator Coleman was optimistic, a little bit more moved perhaps by the president's words last night. But there's no question, Tony, that people on either side of the political spectrum are very concerned, as we all are as Americans, of what's going on in Iraq.
But let me just rebut something the professor said a second ago. The United States is involved in Iraq to win not just because it's a moving goal post or there were weapons of mass destruction or not weapons of mass destruction. The terrorists themselves have said that they want to fight the infidel - meaning us, the United States - in Iraq. And as our general over there, Abizaid, has said, if we do not take the terrorists over there, the terrorists will come here.
That is what this struggle - that is what this fight is all about of taking these terrorists out before they inflict more damage on our soil as we've seen from 9/11.
I think you're absolutely right, and the president actually said that from the opening moments of the State of the Union last night. Again, that the American people don't care what side of the aisle we sit on; the American people expect us to cross that aisle to work together to find viable solutions to the problems that face us. And healthcare is just one of those problems.
If you look at the president's proposal, the top fifth of Americans will actually pay a little bit more, but middle-class Americans, lower-class Americans, will receive tax cuts, will have tax deductions. And I think as Melissa said, this is something that will go to the Congress where we'll have a fair debate and fair discussion to find a way to address the 44 to 46 million people in this country without health insurance.
They were, and it's an unfortunate choice of language. Senator Webb has shown a lack of maturity and candidly a lack of decorum. He snapped at the president in an event right around the holiday season where he refused to shake his hand and refused to talk about his son when the president asked how his son, Senator Webb's son, who is a Marine overseas in combat in Iraq.
I think the way forward that we all recognize with, particularly with the divided Congress right now, is for people to put aside their personal differences and find ways to work together. And I thought that that response by Senator Webb for the Democrat response was more of the same of partisan and if President Bush is for it then we're against it, which was an unfortunate tone for him to take.
I give it a seven - strong delivery, strong content and the right tone at the right time.
Nice to join you.

I think he can be. I think he's entering into this race is a very important dynamic for the Republican Party. For so much of the commentary that you hear in the airwaves, you hear, oh well, if you're not pro-life and if you're not in certain - if you look at social litmus tests, if you will - if you don't vote the right way or believe the right way in certain issues that you'll never make it pass the early primary stage and then thus not get the nomination.
I think with Rudy Giuliani what you see here is a dynamic individual, a former U.S. prosecutor who cleaned up New York City when he was the mayor of the city of New York, and someone who a lot of people have a lot of respect for for his leadership and his ability on 9/11. So I do think he can win. It will be incumbent for Giuliani to make a strong impression in the Iowa caucus and the New Hampshire primary. But absolutely I think he has the ability to raise the money. I think he has the stature and ultimately, should Senator Clinton become the Democratic nominee, he has the wherewithal to take her on in a head-to-head in general election.
I think as E.R. has just said, every time that you go to battle and every time there is a friendly fire accident, it's a tragedy, and it's a terrible loss of life. And Tony, you just mentioned what happened with Pat Tillman again, another terrible tragedy and loss of life.
I think the Pentagon and the military officials have an obligation to fully investigate not only what happened at the time of the friendly fire accident, but what has happened in the subsequent years after that initial accident. Was there a cover up? Was there an attempt to deceive, or was that material classified for reasons to protect either troops on the ground or localities or other means or disseminations of intelligence that you don't want those who are our enemies to have.
So it's important, I think, for the United States government to be fully conversant with their British allies about what happened and it to be transparent but at the same time, we don't want to give our enemies information that's classified or sensitive, should that be that case.
Yeah. Thank you, Tony.
That's absolutely just so, so wrong, Tony. And I think as the two previous panelists just said, it's almost like they are saying you're so articulate, dot-dot-dot, for a person of color, you know. And I got that in the White House, you know, you would go out and you would represent the administration and you would give a speech and people would say gosh, you know, you're so articulate. You're so well spoken and I'd look at them and say well, I'm a lawyer. You know, I've been to college.
I mean what would you expect? Do you expect to come up and, I mean, what are you looking for? And so I think as all three of us have articulated, all four of us really, Senator Biden probably got himself on a little bit of hot water by saying these remarks about Senator Obama.
I'm sure his intentions were pure but we need to recognize that African-Americans have done so much for this country and have contributed so much to this country that to look and refer to us as articulate or well-spoken can be an insult when put in a context of articulate as oppose to what.
Thank you, Tony.

Nice to be with you.
I think on the Republican side of the fence, that Barack Obama represents a formidable candidate for the Democrats. He is not politics as usual, as so many of the candidates that you see running right now on the Democratic side have been around Washington, have been part of the problem, if you will, some of the discord that a lot of the American people find with politics as usual in Washington.
And I just don't think its Senator Clinton's coronation that we're going to see. I think Senator Obama is going to push her far to the left. Further perhaps than Senator Clinton would have wanted to go. I also think he's going to make her run and run very hard to get that nomination.
I think Republicans have done a remarkable effort in the last decade of making inroads in the African-American community, not just at the national level but at the state and local level.
If you look just back at this past election, you had Lynn Swann running for governor in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. You had Michael Steele running for the United States Senate in Maryland; you had a wide variety of candidates, Mr. Blackwell in Ohio, who are running for statewide office.
For president, I think there are a couple of candidates who could appeal to African-Americans, who could equal what President Bush has done. I think Mitt Romney would be one, the governor of Massachusetts. The governor up there has been rather progressive on certain social issues. He has provided universal health care for people living in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. I think that's one individual who might do a lot better in the African-American community, or at least on par with what President Bush has done.
And the second, I would say, would be someone like Mike Huckabee, who is a dark horse in the Republican field, if you will, a very popular governor in the state of Arkansas, and someone who, I think, resonates with people not only of color, but people who - who will resonate with people all around the country.
But if you look at some of the mainstream Republican candidates, I don't see them at this point breaking out of the low teens for the African-American percentage of the vote.
Nice to be with you.

Well, Farai, I don't think that we're at the end of the era for the U.S. automaker, but U.S. automakers are in a very difficult position right now to remain competitive with the world market. If you look in the United States, the transportation sector accounts for the majority of the petroleum that's used in the United States.
And breaking that down a little further, cars and light trucks are the largest users of petroleum, given the reliance on foreign supply of oil. And given the spikes of energy costs in the United States, I think the American auto industry is facing the reality that consumers are switching to more fuel-efficient cars. And those gas guzzling light trucks and SUVs, consumers are turning away from those, and as a result the U.S. auto industry is suffering.
Yeah, we will always have (unintelligible)…
(Unintelligible).
And we are. And as far as I'm concerned, that's just one of those eggs that we're going to have to break to make the omelet. I think this is the most wonderful thing, because in the larger scheme of things we're talking about micro-credit. And rapacious as those interest rates seem - it's funny, if you look around the world, very poor people have a way of coping with them. And so you combine the capitalist impulse of the evil, cigar-chomping bankers with the initiative of people on the bottom, and next thing you know you have social growth.
I think that this whole model should be extended even to the lower economic part of the African-American community. Micro-credit is the next big thing, I suspect.
Well, I hate to say the wet blanket into this, gentlemen. But see this is exactly why I'm against with Bank of America is doing. I think that John is absolutely right that micro-credit is the way of the future. And particularly looking at what we've seen with red lining for insurance in African-American communities and the reluctance of some banks perhaps to extend credit to African-Americans, I think that's something that we'd all agree that we should combat. But when you specifically look at a bank, an institution that's in it just to make a buck. They're charging higher interest rates to people who they know or have a high likelihood of knowing are here illegally. That's thwarting our immigration laws. It's against the law.
I understand that these folks are here, and that's a separate issue. But for a financial institution to decide, well, we're going to make a big buck off a group of people who are poor and desperate and we're going to charge them these rates, I think it's wrong and I think that it's these types of actions by big corporations and big entities that allow illegal immigration to thrive in this country. Because people know that they can come here, they can work, and now they can get credit and they can get a credit card from a major institution.
Well, Farai, for having worked for both the vice president and the president of the United States, they are both very concerned about controlling our borders. But I think as you've heard the president, particularly in recent months, talk about the need for comprehensive immigration reform, the president feels very strongly that we need to take steps to address those illegal immigrants who are here in the United States; and that despite some of the calls by members of the House of Representatives to just build a fence and lock everybody out, that we have to deal with the 12 to 16 million undocumented individuals in the country.
So without speaking for the White House directly, I can tell you that the White House is very concerned about the individuals who are here and that all Americans, recognizing that we have illegal aliens who are in our borders, we have to find a way to make it work so that you're not just throwing people right out and just, you know, showing them the exit. But this credit program is one way, undoubtedly, that a big institution like Bank of America is trying to help folks assimilate into society.
Well, I couldn't agree with my two colleagues more. Having spent a lot of time in Cameroon and having represented the prime minister of Cameroon, you'll don't need a re-branding of the African continent as it relates to tourism and to try to bring dollars in, you need to re-brand some of the leadership in some of these African countries, particularly in Western African and sub-Saharan Africa.
For goodness sakes, if you look at Cameroon for one, a majority of the people on the government payroll in Cameroon work for Camair, an airline that has been defunct for several years that isn't flying. There is rampant corruption in many of these countries. There is a lot of vigorous, I would say, natural resources that are there to be sold and there to be utilized by the people of these countries.
But, unfortunately, it seems that in many of these countries the power and the wealth is in the hands of the handful of individuals. And we need to re-brand the governments and re-brand and have democracy and transparency rather than try to re-brand the continent for tourism.
Absolutely.

Well, I think this is a very delicate time in foreign policy in the Middle East. Iran has continued to enrich uranium, much to the detriment and much to the concern of the United Nations community. The United Nations, working through the Security Council, has asked Iran to stop their proliferation and enrichment of uranium.
And I think the United States is looking, as are all nations, to ensure that there is compliance with the U.N. mandate. And if Iran does not comply, then I think the United States will be in a position to seek counsel and to seek alliance with other members in the Security Council to impose sanctions, economic sanctions and other sanctions on Iran.
But it will be very interesting, I think, to see particularly what Russia and China do - two friends of Iran who are permanent members of the United Nations security council - whether they would block such efforts to impose sanctions.
I think if in fact the report comes out and it says what we believe that it will say, that Iran continues to enrich uranium for purposes other than domestic energy, I think that the international community will be very swift in trying to impose economic and other sanctions to bring Iran back to the negotiating table and make them feel a little bit of pain, not in a military way but from an economic perspective to bring them into compliance.
And see the premise of what you just said, Walter, I just disagree so strongly about. First of all, the United States did not play the bully as it related to Iraq. You seem to forget nearly 17 sanctions, I should say, resolutions that were passed by the United Nations Security Council as it related to Iraq.
And going back to Marcelo's point, I would not take - I would not agree with you when you say that sanctions are anemic and have very little value. Iran's major export to the world is petroleum. If the United Nations and the United Nations Security Council decides to impose an oil embargo, an economic embargo against Iran and cuts off that stream of revenue, I think that they would be in a far better position and want to come to the negotiating table to sit down and listen.
To suggest, Walter, to suggest that the United States has no credibility because we detonated…
To suggest, Walter, that the United States has no credibility because we detonated a bomb in World War II, when the empire of Japan attacked the United States and used suicide kamikaze individuals who were killing thousands of Americans, I think is mixing apples and oranges. And that actually…
I think it's damaging to the United States Army, who runs the Walter Reed facility. I think this is deplorable. And I was watching a piece yesterday about the two-star general who is in charge of Walter Reed, and he said their sole responsibility for what has taken place in this institution is mine and mine alone.
There's so much effort of anytime that anything bad happens in government, it's, oh, let's go after George W. Bush. In this particular instance, Walter Reed is a military institution. It is a military hospital that is charged with taking care of our brave men and women in uniform. And if, in fact, that these allegations are true, the responsibility in my opinion lies with those who are in charge of running that facility. And…
…the Pentagon itself.
Well, that's something that we're going to have to take a look at, Farai. We'll have to look and see whether or not the secretary of defense has had the proper consultation with those who work with him and those who are in a uniform who have advised him on what's best for Walter Reed.
But I don't want to have a rush to judgment to say, oh, this is President George W. Bush's fault. Let's see what the budget allocation was last year, let's see what the budget allocation is for this year. But most importantly, let's see what's going on and whether these charges are in fact true.
Yeah, you know, why don't you answer the question?
I believe we're talking about Walter Reed. We're not talking about the murder, Walter.
Within the industry, absolutely. I mean, as a lawyer, I would tell you I'm always nervous about government encroaching on the first amendment right of individuals to have freedom of speech and freedom of expression, but at the same time, as the good professor just noted, it's almost predatory the way that these individuals market and target children. And I think that has a devastating impact on the psyche of young men and young women as they're growing up and as they reach maturity.
Thank you.

Hello.
I don't think it's confusing to the public. It's been no surprise that Senator McCain has been raising money, attending fundraisers, bringing in advisers and sending out direct mail pieces for several months now. What sort of - I find particularly amusing as these politicians who say, well, I'm announcing that I'm going to announce in April - I mean, give me a break. We all know you're running for president. Just come on out and say it.
But again, it's more towards them generating free publicity for themselves of here's my pre-announcement before my announcement before I announce. Let's try to get more attention and to try to get more people to support their cause.
I think this intelligence threat is a very real one. I don't think that there's any question that the individuals who work at our 16 intelligence-gathering entities across the United States take the threats to this country very seriously. The suggestion of the implication that there could be a political motivation behind the fact that al-Qaida wants to hurt the United States, I think, is misjudged.
I have no question in my mind whatsoever that al-Qaida, Hezbollah and other terrorist groups around the world want to acquire weapons of mass destruction and they want to use weapons of mass destruction against the United States. And again, that's why the - what is going on in the Middle East in the war in terrorism is so important. And as you noted, Tony, the Iraqi-Afghan - or excuse me - the Pakistani-Afghan border is such a volatile region of the world and a breeding ground, I think, for new terrorists, which is why it was important that the vice president went over and met with President Karzai.
And my final point to that is you notice that the Afghani tribal leaders told the president of Afghanistan, Mr. Karzai, as well as Mr. Cheney, that they were concerned about the American commitment to Afghanistan because of what they've been hearing of the Democrats saying that the United States is going to pull out of Iraq. Our enemies are listening.
I don't think that's an empty threat. I think Robert touched on this very articulately a few moments ago. There is no question that it appears in my mind that President Musharraf has cut a deal with those entities who are either running drugs, running weapons, or running something on the Pakistan-Afghani border.
And for President Musharraf, who has proclaimed his desire to be a strong ally of the United States, he needs to take control of his country. He needs to take control of his borders, because there are those terrorist elements or those who are up to illicit activity. But I think that if he decided he wanted to have the responsibility to crack down on these elements, he would have the ability to do so.
I agree.
And it is -
Last Word Productions.
That's a D.C. Navigator for you.
It's just such a ridiculous comment that I - of course, you can right some wrongs and you can actually stand up and act as a grown-up and act as a mature individual to recognize that slavery and discrimination is one of the darkest and ugliest stains in this country.
But to suggest, for someone particularly who was in the legislature, that you can't change a wrong or you can't fix a wrong is just absolute fiction. We have grown so much as a country since the terrible atrocities that were perpetrated against African-Americans and other brave and courageous leaders of the civil rights era.
But to align myself with what Julianne and Robert said, there's absolutely no question in my mind that that Till case and others like them almost shines a light on the many hundreds of individuals whose names that we might not ever know, who were beaten but who were courageous and stood up to fight the injustices of the old South.
No.
Thank you, Tony.

My number one concern, Farai, is to ensure that those residents - particularly in lower income areas such as Watts - have access to high-quality medical care. My concern, from looking at this complaint very briefly is that the hospital has failed a crucial part of their inspection. It was tied to $200 million worth of federal funds. And if you look at poor oversight in their radiology and surgery departments, the federal government said that they were going to restrict funds if these standards were not met, and they were not delivering the quality of care that was necessary to have an accreditation.
So I am very concerned. We must have access to high-quality health care in our African-American communities and our urban areas, as well as our rural areas around the United Stats, but race shouldn't play a part. If, in fact, that these students are not in a hospital that is up to standards, that is up to par, that is up to a medically and board-certified standard, then I think it should shut its doors, because then, what are you going to if you're training people that have improper access to equipment? In other words, they're using faulty equipment or if they're using equipments that aren't up to standards. That's what concerns me.
Yes, there were.
I think it does a lot of damage. It would be one thing if this was an isolated incident with Walgreens and allegations of discrimination. As a lawyer, I can tell you, not knowing what all the facts are, I don't want to make any sweeping pronouncements, but this troubles me.
You have the EEOC office in St. Louis, you have the EEOC office in Miami, looking at the assignment of individuals, and apparently, it's being done so -based solely on the color of their race and the color of their skin, I should say. And the EEOC tried to get a settlement. They tried to work voluntarily with Walgreens. They were unable to reach an agreement with them. And so they had to file a suit under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act.
So I think that this is a very troubling allegation. It's very troubling - a seeming pattern with this particular drugstore, and I hope that we get all the facts out and that a situation is reached that if, in fact, that there has been systematic racism or systematic discrimination, this company and its employees are held fully responsible.
Well, I think there is an appetite to have oversight hearings, which as Walter said, it seems to be is long overdue. But these credit card companies have been piling on year after year. They make a lot of money. I don't begrudge anybody who works hard for making a profit. But for having been one who in college got a lot of these solicitation letters, applied for the cards, used the cards, ran up a lot of debt, and then you start paying off the debt and you still get charged interest fees - from a personal standpoint I can tell you enough is enough.
These guys need to be held accountable. And those small, little, teeny tiny pieces of paper that you get with your credit card statement, you can get a magnifying glass to read it, you still can't understand it, and they're just making money hand over fist. Enough is enough.
Thank you.

Well, let me answer Julianne's question. The question is where do we go from here? This particular hearing at the Guantanamo Bay facility was something that was called a combatant status review tribunal, which was a proceeding to determine whether or not Khalid Sheikh Mohammed could be tried as an enemy combatant. The evidence that he claims that he was responsible for the 9/11 attacks and these other terrorist plots around the world will be used against him, and of course, in my opinion, this is going to pave the way for him to be tried as an enemy combatant.
Where do we go from here? We go from here to try to bring those individuals to justice who tried to either perpetrate attacks against the United States or who in fact planned or carried out this attacks against the United States. And I'm very, very pleased that Khalid Sheikh Mohammed in a military tribunal -properly endorsed by the Congress, signed into law by the president - has had his time to offer his testimony, and now he will be tried in the court of law and be held responsible for his actions.
Walter, how do you know that? Give one specific example. How do you know the United States government…
We're in Iraq. You give one statement where you (unintelligible).
How can you say…
What surprises me - and this is why I love this show so much, that we can have a spirited discourse - is that my two friends suggest that, oh, we've veered to the left or this should be a police matter. That's entirely the wrong way to pursue this. This is not a police matter. This is a military matter. There are those who would believe that, oh, we can just pursue this as if it was a police investigation and we can follow leads. No, the United States of America was under attack.
The United States of America was attacked. And United States military, with the full force of the United States military, is pursuing and bringing those individuals to justice for these terrible crimes that were perpetuated against this country. But to suggest that going to Iraq was a mistake, or, the United States, they should have gone after Osama bin Laden and they let him go, that is untrue, that is unwarranted and that is not born of the fact…
The Bush tax cuts have done a remarkable job to stimulate the economy. If you go back, all the way back to August of 2003, this economy has created 7.5 million jobs. February of 2007 of this year was the 42nd month of consecutive pro-growth economic growth. You say where are we going to get the money? Under the Bush tax cuts, the United States Treasury has had more money that has gone out, that has been received for revenues collected for the highest period in American history. So to suggest that the Bush tax cuts - oh, these tax cuts are hurting the economy - quite to the contrary, they have stimulated the economy. They brought more revenue in which will allow more social spending to provide education, health care for children, other vital programs.
I think it's a very wise move and a cognizant move…
Excuse me.
I think it's a cognizant move by the Senate Democrats who recognize that cutting off these tax cuts before they expire in 2010 would be a mistake. That's why I think the Senate Democrats left this money in. That's why I think these tax cuts will remain in place.
No, that's a silly analogy. The one thing that makes a country a country is its sovereignty and the ability to protect its borders. If the United States wants to put up fences and put up borders to protect the southern border, to protect the northern border, that's the responsibility of the United States government.
And the fact of the matter is that the United States needs to work with Mexico and work with our friends in Latin America to find ways to create meaningful jobs, well-paying jobs in these individual countries to stem the flow of illegal immigration. I'm all in favor of immigration.
I think that America is a melting pot and the thing that makes America that best country in the world is our specific diversity. But to suggest that the United States cannot protect its borders, not just from an immigration standpoint, but to keep out those who want to come in here - terrorists and other individuals, mob folks, people who want to run drugs - I think it's an absolutely silly and irresponsibility statement.
Yes, it's the United States…

Hey, Tony.
Walt is exactly on the mark. You know, I sit here, I'm sitting across from Julianne this morning and I've just never seen such a big, huge smile, big, huge presence, such enthusiasm. But I have to tell you, this is the gain of Bennett College. This is a fantastic addition, someone with a brilliant background in economics from MIT, someone who understands economics and understands the important issues facing our community, and someone who has the energy and the talent to take an institution of higher education to the next level. So my hat and my praise go off to you, Julianne.
I did not. I went to Haverford College in Pennsylvania.
I don't have children just yet. But I have to tell you, growing in Palo Alto, California, one of my best friends, one of my dearest friends left Palo Alto, which is a predominantly white city, and went to Morehouse. And he came back and had such a amazing experience. The breadth of diversity, the breadth of (unintelligible) cultural enrichment that he had going to Morehouse was off the charts. And listening to his stories and going down and being able to visit him.
And also for having gone to Haverford College. My first dean at the college was Dr. Freddy Hill who was the immediate past president of Spelman College. And she talked about the diversity and the strength and the sisterhood that they had at Spelman.
So while my wife and I don't have children just yet, of course I would encourage my children to look at it. Because only looking through the eyes of graduates and listening to their experiences can you really understand how much pride and how much strength it gave them to go to those schools.
So no knock on any other schools. But again, looking at it first hand, of course I would encourage my children to look at it.
When Jennifer and I have them.
I've worked on two campaigns thus far in my career. I have to tell you, one of the most embarrassing things for the candidate is watching them as they go through the opposition research that they have commissioned on their own personal life. And being very candid and being very honest of, you know, it's going to get out there, so maybe you better get out and admit to you've had that affair or you've had that problem.
Look, I am worried about attracting the best group of people to join public service. And I think Julianne is absolutely right. If you have put yourself out there as a beacon of moral authority and then it comes to find out you've had an affair with a woman and you kick your own wife out of your home to move another woman in, you don't have any right to claim that you have the moral high ground.
But I'm concerned about the way that we've become in this country where it's a gotcha mentality and people are trying tear other people down. If you have a private life and you want to keep your family private, I think that people's family lives should remain off limits except when the candidate invites that discussion by doing something hypocritical.
Thanks, Tony.

I absolutely agree. I think that this is a proper decision by the Supreme Court. I think if you will look at what the Supreme Court was actually looking at, they were looking at a specific procedure dealing with abortion rather than when a woman might have to have the ability to terminate that pregnancy.
I actually read this case, you know. For being a lawyer, I would say that, you know, being a lawyer, I always want to look at the facts. If you look in the very beginning of this case, they say three very important things. The Supreme Court, the majority opinion, upheld the three-prong test that was in the Roe versus Wade decision: one that says the woman has the right to terminate a pregnancy, second, that the state has the power to restrict - and this is very important - the state has the power to restrict abortions after viability. And the third, that the state has a legitimate interest in the pregnancies - in other words, the state has a legitimate interest in the pregnancy for looking at the health of the woman, as well as the viability of that particular child.
So in this case, we're talking about a method of abortion, not whether a woman has a right to choose, whether or not she wants to have an abortion. It's just the disgusting method of extracting a baby from the womb and then crushing that skull. That's just - I think the Supreme Court did the right thing here.
I don't know, Farai. It's very difficult for me to speculate. I believe that Roe versus Wade is the law of the land. I do not believe that that case will ever be overturned. I think that this is a very, very sacred discussion that we're having when you're talking about the viability of a fetus that is being destroyed through a gruesome procedure.
But no, I do not believe that there are women - I mean, I'm sure there's always the exception. But I do not believe that there are women who let a baby go to term and then decide to have a partial birth abortion due to health reasons. You're talking about extracting a baby from the womb and killing it.
(Unintelligible)
I don't think this is going to have any impact on African-American women who elect to have an abortion. Let me say very briefly once again, I urge my colleagues to read this decision. I read this decision, and I hear, oh, it's a right wing decision.
Well, first of all, it was a 5-4 case, and Justice Kennedy - who is no right winger - wrote for the majority. And secondly, Walter, when you talk about, oh, it's part of the right wing, talking about skulls crushing and whatnot, read the case.
The case specifically discusses a surgeon - a nurse who actually watches a surgeon do this procedure. I would encourage all sides - my side and those who are in favor, apparently, of this procedure - to take a deep breath and recognize that this will not impact a woman's right to chose, nor access to it, although I just think that abortion is a gruesome, gruesome procedure.
Yes, you did, Walter.
You said that this was part of the right wing - this is part of a right wing…
And what is that rhetoric? And Walter, answer - what…
No, you didn't explain what you meant. You talked about the right wing…
And once you have no basis of the fact per se…
Wait, Julianne, one second. Walter, you say that this had to do with Justice Alito. You have no basis, in fact, to say that Justice Alito was the swing person who did this because Justice Kennedy wrote for the majority, not Alito.
That's not what we're doing.
I think to suggest to this court is taking an activist position or doing - taking steps that are going to hurt people of color is not true on it's face. I think that unfortunately, IBM should have been a lot more responsible on regulating the conduct of its employees. It should never have got in the courts, in my opinion.
But to suggest the Supreme Court is tilting heavily right or that women's rights or rights of people of color are threatened I think is just more rhetoric. It's a lot of hyperbole that we're hearing from folks on the left. Let's look at the cases that bubble up to the courts and let's read the reasoning and decisions of the justices before we jump to judgment.
Thanks, Farai.

Hi, Farai.
Well, I think it's a remarkable development. I think that you have Michael Bloomberg all but winking and smiling at the camera and saying I'm not running but I'm really running for president. He has said that he intends to serve out the remaining 926 days as being mayor of the City of New York. But at the same time, he's also said that he's willing to spend up to half a billion, perhaps even a billion dollars of his own money, making a race.
I think if he decides to ultimately throw his hat into the ring, he will have similar effects to what Ross Perot did back in 1992, where he forces the Republicans and the Democrats to concede either some of the issues that Mayor Bloomberg might find important or he'll elevate some issues that he might find important. Remember, Ross Perot took nearly 17 percent of the vote. I think he's getting into it. Bloomberg, you'll be the one to watch the next couple of weeks.
And I agree with the professor. I mean I think it adds an additional dynamic that so much of the media attention has focused on the horserace between Senator Clinton and Senator Obama on one side and, you know, the big three in the Republican - former governor - I should say, Mitt Romney, Mayor Giuliani, and then, of course, Senator McCain. And now, this is the big unknown factor. How would this potentially impact these candidates? It will certainly divert the media's attention in the next several weeks, looking at what a Bloomberg presidency or candidacy might look like. So I think, in a short term, I think it's going to change the dynamics or the way that the 2008 race is being covered. And that might also have some policy implications further down the road.
This is really tough for me. I was reading the article earlier today and I thought, you know, it is a privilege and an obligation to vote in the United States, one that I think that if you're given that privilege, you ought to exercise that and to participate under your responsibilities as a good citizen.
I am very troubled at where you would draw the line of where one individual's mental disability would preempt them from being able to exercise that vote. Who's the arbiter? Who's the judge? What sort of recourse do people have? Certainly, I think that people who go into the voting booth ought to exercise their vote wisely and soundly. But I'm just nervous when the government might be an arbiter to determine what that judgment or how sound of a judgment that might be.
And let me just, Farai, if I might pick up on the professor's point, even those who are found mentally incompetent in the law are still able to stand trial. So I agree with the professor. I think it's a really difficult decision that has to be made. And even if you do have a medical individual, perhaps someone could say, well, if I'm deemed mentally incompetent but I can stand trial, why can't I vote? It's a tough dilemma.
I actually agree with Senator McCain. If the way that the current landscape is right now by February 12th nearly 60 percent of the population of the United States will have either voted in the primary or a caucus. I think it's so early. There's been this rush to have the candidates come out, announce their candidacies early. Now the states are trying to move up to be more relevant early. I would like to see a system where people have the opportunity and the ability to hear the candidates, hear their fleshed out positions. Moving it up to early February I think does a great disservice. It's just too soon and only a handful of the major states, I think, will be relevant actors and players here.
I don't think so. I think, obviously, with the Bush presidency or the Bush candidacy I should say back in 2000, the voters still had ample opportunity to look at the president's record, some of it are social issues, some of the transgressions that he had participated in as a younger man and they decided to elect the man into office.
But again going back to Mary's point, I think that people around the country are going to have to pay a lot more attention, a lot earlier in the process rather than waiting until, say, the spring of next year. It's incumbent upon the voters. It's incumbent upon those who want to set the next direction at this country's course to pay attention a lot sooner and to try to get as much information about these candidates because it's just not going to be available. And by the end of February, we'll have the Republican and the Democratic nominees more than likely.
Next time.

Happy Fourth of July.
I don't think it reflects a re-interpretation of the Constitution. Candidly, I think, it is a affirmation of Brown versus Board of Education in the 21st century. What you had in this particular case, Farai, was a school district that was discriminating using race as a classification for -whether a student could enroll in a particular school or not.
And that is exactly what Brown versus Board of Education was all about, which was equal access under the law, equal opportunity to attend school and not using such suspect classifications, which requires the federal government to use the outmost care as race as a basis for enrolling or not enrolling students.
So, contrary to what some of our civil rights folks are saying today, I think it only affirms the fact that race should not be used as a classification for students being able to enroll in a school district.
I don't. In fact, I think President George W. Bush very well might have the opportunity to replace another justice on the Supreme Court. Justice John Paul Stevens is getting up in age. And I think what Donna said is absolutely right - elections matter. And I think one of the things that galvanized many Americans and took may Americans to the polls was exactly what was going on in the last election, which was President George W. Bush promised that he would appoint justices to the Supreme Court, those that interpreted the Constitution and elected not to legislate from the bench.
And unlike my friend's assessment of the - that the court's term this past term - I think that the Supreme Court has taken a direction to the right. But it's taken a direction to the right but it's taken direction to the right in a responsible way, striking down part of the McCain-Feingold campaign finance legislation that restrict its speech. This will now allow people to have more the ability to exercise their freedom of speech rights.
And looking at the partial-birth abortion case that Donna cited, the court did exactly the right thing. And in that specific case it said that it had no bearing on overturning or overruling Roe versus Wade, instead it was talking about a very narrow procedure. And, unfortunately, some of our friends in the left try to use the - this particular case to say that the right of a woman to choose in this country is restricted. It has not been the case. It will not be the case. But I do think that elections matter and the president has put two justices on the Supreme Court that are a lot more right wing - right wing (unintelligible).
Well, I think immigration is a issue that has really divided the Republican Party. You have folks like Senator John McCain of Arizona and Senator Lindsey Graham from South Carolina, who helped lead the fights in trying to forge an immigration reform package with the likes of Senator Kennedy from Massachusetts and others.
I think that, candidly, the United States has failed to enforce existing laws in the book, which has given employers free reign candidly of being able to hire who they wanted without looking at the legality of those individuals. And now you find yourself in a situation where people are saying, hey, wait a second, you know, you're going to come down on us now? It's been a status quo. We've been able to hire these folks. Why are you coming down on us now?
So I think this is an issue that is very divisive within the Republican Party and candidly we need comprehensive immigration reform in this country. I just don't think that the bill that was making its way to the Senate was the right way to go about it.
Happy Fourth of July.

Farai, nice to join you today.
I doubt. I've known Karl Rove ever since the year 2000. And he has been a tireless advocate then on behalf of Governor Bush. And he, of course, was the famous architect to the president's election as president of the United States and his subsequent reelection to that office. A very impressive feat given the really lack of individuals who've been able to succeed as president of the United States for two successive terms.
But looking specifically at Karl Rove behind the scenes, I saw him many, many mornings in the president's senior staff meetings at 7:30 in the morning, often in the office in the 6:00 hour, and often not leaving until midnight or later, and looking for Darby, his wife, and his son who's now in college back in Texas. After eight years really of working side by side with the President when he first decided to run for office, it seems to me, this is the natural nexus and the natural exit point for Karl. Not (unintelligible) considerations.
I think it will. I mean, so much has been made of Karl Rove being the architect for his political acumen. But I think once history takes a reflection upon Karl Rove and his contributions in the White House, he'll also be known as the policy architect. He was the instrumental force behind the Social Security reform efforts and immigration reform, as you mentioned at the top of the package. But he was also instrumental in steel trade policy, agriculture policy, health care, and as recently, of course, is the wire-tapping issue that the president confronted in recent weeks. So I think his detractors and his supporters alike will recognize that this is a brilliant political mind and one that we haven't seen in generations.
Farai, nice to be with you today.

Merry Christmas.
I think it does. I think when you're right on the cusp of the first caucus in the nation and talking about the Iowa and the Hawkeye State, it all amounts to turnout. And as Mary eluded, too, a few moments ago, it's going to be very important for the candidates to have the best organization and hope for a very good weather so that they can load up the buses and send people to the different caucus areas so they can cast their ballot.
As it relates to Senator Edwards, John Edwards is in a very unique position right now. Senator Clinton and Senator Obama are so focused on each other and they seemed to be targeting a lot of their resources towards each other. John Edwards is in a very unique position because he's just on the cusp of becoming the frontrunner in Iowa and some polls have put him in the lead. If Clinton and Obama continue to focus on each other and Senator Edwards can get the turnout and he can have positive air experiences - be it some of these campaign ads or positive mailing pieces - and he can get his folks out, he can win and then that will entirely change the dynamic of this race moving forward.
I don't know how substantive it is. I think it's a stamp of a seal of approval from the so-called Black Leadership that Reverend Sharpton provides apparently. But again, I think that the most influential type of political individual who's African-American these days is someone like Barack Obama, someone like Deval Patrick, the mayor - excuse me - the governor of Massachusetts, someone who's been elected to office and has experience. But there's no question, looking at that article from the Washington Post today, that for better or worse, Al Sharpton is still a force to be reckoned with.
Well, I tell you, if you looked at the political conventional wisdom from just a few weeks ago, you would have said, Mike Huckabee has a chance? Governor Huckabee has been able to galvanize a lot of the evangelical Christian support in Iowa to his advantage and the once seemingly informidable lead held by former Governor Mitt Romney has been - chips down to not only the size of the margin of error, but Governor Huckabee is expected now to win in Iowa.
What this does for the contest, I think, Tony, takes you very, very interestingly enough into the heart of what the Republican Party's future is going to be. The Republican Party in the past was very much dominated by the Christian coalition and the evangelical Christian part of the base. But moving forward to New Hampshire, South Carolina, Michigan, states where their influence perhaps is not as great as what it used to be, it'll be interesting to see as Governor Huckabee holds on to win what will mean for Governor Romney and Senator McCain in these other states where the role of the evangelical is not as strong.
Well, it doesn't help someone like Governor Romney right now. Governor Romney has long predicated his strategy on winning in Iowa, New Hampshire, Michigan, South Carolina at the early contests.
Senator McCain has shown a remarkable resilience in the last month or so and he's picked up the endorsements of influential papers in Iowa and New Hampshire and around the country. And these are the sort of things that once folks thought, gosh, does John McCain have a chance? Well, I think, yeah, maybe he does. That increases his financial coffers. That increases his ability to get on the air and influence the process.
And don't forget, Senator McCain won the New Hampshire primary in 2000 and he thoroughly dominated that contest over former Governor George W. Bush. And it'll be interesting to see, for those constituents who had such a strong fervor and following for Senator McCain then, whether they come out and vote for him now.
Iowa is a must for Mitt Romney. New Hampshire is a must for Mitt Romney. And I think, as Mary and I have discussed, you see an opening with Governor Huckabee in Iowa and Senator McCain in New Hampshire. It's going to be a very interesting contest that it's going to be very hard to predict at this point.
I don't believe we will. I think, historically, Iowa and New Hampshire have been a springboard to galvanize money, interest, support and the horse race that those of us who participate in the media like to look at the scorecard. I think that Iowa and New Hampshire this year will be very, very closely watched and the candidates that emerge victorious from those two early contests - it will really do a lot to propel their candidacies moving forward.
Tony, a pleasure. Happy New Year.

Robert, it's a pleasure to join you.
Well, I think it's going to be much tougher to avert a fiscal blowout. But the consequences to the country and the ramifications of the dire economic situation that we're in puts position - puts people in Washington in a position where they have to act and they have to act responsibly.
Today's report only underscores the need that entitlements, the largest portion of the money that the federal government spends and its tax revenue that it collects, the prices are rapidly rising and they're rapidly rising higher than the rate of GDP growth in the United States.
And so I expect that the former plan that was put on the table a few weeks back by current House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan will be a good starting point for negotiations. But I would caution that Democrats, particularly HHS Secretary Sebelius, demagoguing the Republicans and suggesting that more seniors are going to die under the plan is not a first responsible step for the secretary to take.
Well, I think in the great scheme of things there are a lot of people who are more interested in their own political re-election than they are to confront serious issues facing the country. And that's where I think we are with the Ryan plan.
The Democrats don't have a plan. The Democrats say that they have taken steps to shore up the solvency of Medicare and Social Security, and, frankly, that's not the case. I'd like to see what President Obama's plan is on paper, in writing, in specific, talking about how he would shore up the program rather than just attacking Paul Ryan and the House Republicans.
And I think that's the real lack of leadership that we're facing in this debate. Let's have an honest discussion, but let's have both political parties put their cards on the table, as opposed to one putting them down and the other criticizing him for it.
I don't think so. I think the speaker is certainly brilliant and certainly a machine when it comes to putting out numerous ideas on very complex policy matters. But the fact of the matter is, he's only been elected to the House of Representatives. Other than his stint as speaker of the House, he does not have any major governing experience.
And I think given the really complex issues facing the country and given his relatively lack of significant leadership experience, I think he'll attract a lot of attention, he will be politely regarded on the stage, but at the end of the day, he won't be the next president of the United States.
I do. I think it was a very smart move for the former governor from Massachusetts to try to put not distance between himself and his Romney care plan in Massachusetts, but to explain what he had done as governor and how he would differentiate for being the Republican nominee and hopefully the next Republican president.
He's being attacked on the right for this, but I think he did the right thing now to put that issue on the table so that it will hopefully not hurt him as much in the future.
Take care, gentlemen.

Good to see you.
And last but certainly not least, Jolene Ivey. She's a former representative to the Maryland House of Delegates and a Barbershop regular. Good to see you again, Jolene.
Well, it's troubling. It's troubling when you see people who are in the wrong side of law enforcement and they lose their lives as a result of the encounter with law enforcement. But it's the lawyer in me, Michel, that says that we need to take a step back and not rush to judgment. We need to ascertain what all the facts are. We need to understand what led these law enforcement officers to come in contact with these individuals who, sadly, lost their lives and determine whether or not a crime was committed. My worry is that there are so many folks out there saying, oh, it's unjustified black shooting. Let's take the race out of it. Let's take whether it was justified out or not. And let's ascertain what the facts are first before enflaming what is already a very, very volatile situation in America.
(Laughter) You're welcome.
This is a very emotional day for me. My second day in the White House, the vice president asked me to look into this and to reach out to Sam Brownback and John Lewis and the other co-sponsors of the bill and see whether or not this was something that the administration could support. And then a couple of years later, standing in the Oval Office with the president and John Lewis and so many other folks who have fought for the struggle since 1915 to open this museum, and to be there today with President Bush, with President Obama - overwhelmingly emotional for me. And it's just amazing that an effort that has gone on for a century, we now finally have come to fruition of opening this wonderful museum.
Well, I have to say for having been there this afternoon and seeing the Tuskegee Airmen airplane hanging up and then talking and visiting with the surviving Tuskegee Airmen today was emotionally overwhelming for me. And they were so excited. And I heard time and time again today, I can't believe I lived long enough to be here for this day to see this. And it just - I mean, even now John Lewis's speech just put me in tears. It was - it was so emotional just to see so many people so happy and yet so cynical to think that this day would never come. And it has, and it's meant so much on an emotional level for so many different people.
Pleasure to be with you.

Hello, Michel.
Well, I largely agree with Danielle. I think it's interesting that the incoming president-elect and the current president - they seem to be an antithesis of one another. And I looked at President Obama's press conference yesterday, and he was very nostalgic. He was wistful. It's clear that he'd spent a lot of time thinking about his last eight years in office and what he thought it meant to the country. And, obviously, as one who doesn't always agree with the president's policies or his politics, I thought he did a very good job of at least ending his term on a positive note while at the same time showing remarkable emotion from a man who doesn't show much emotion about the situation in Syria and in general in Aleppo in particular.
Well, it's a little bit irritating. I believe that we're all Americans, and it shouldn't be a reflection of this is who we are and this is who we aren't. This is, frankly, the country that we are. And it doesn't matter your race, your religion, your ethnicity, but I think a president's job for having worked for one is to find a way to unite the country and to bring people together, and I think all of us would agree that the incoming president-elect has a remarkable responsibility to bring us together as a country. And thus far, I have to say, I'm a little bit less than pleased with some of his antics.
You know, I wrote an op-ed in The New York Times on Labor Day where I - it was entitled "Donald Trump Talks Down To Black America." And you have time to meet with Kanye before you come out with the secretary of state choice? You decide to sit down with celebrities? As if all celebrity folks speak for the African-American people. As if Kanye West - I mean, no offense - really speaks to a lot of the problems that go on in the African-American community.
It just seems like it's a missed opportunity and a tone-deaf response to there are so many people who are out of work, so many people who are looking for opportunity and they don't want it from Kanye. They want it from a responsible leader. And I just think it's kind of bizarre.
Thanks, Michel.
