Nice to be here.
The first reason I mention, I don't think it's the most important, but it one to remember that the United States has been giving Egypt about $2 billion each year for quite some time. This really all goes all the way back to Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty, even a little bit before there.
This was partly a bribe, in a sense, to reinforce the peace treaty, to encourage Egypt to collaborate with us in a number of other ways. But, you know, although $2 billion is not a huge amount, when you're a $13 trillion economy like the United States is, it is one of the things that, as Professor Ajami said, that linked us to pharaoh and was certainly was something that the Egyptian people were aware of, well.
Well, most of it is still military assistance, and it was a way of, I think, keeping the Egyptian military passive and quiet in various ways. It was the bulwark of the Mubarak regime, and we see now today that the Egyptian military is governing the country, and one of the things we, I think, may be able to use to our advantage is the fact that we do have some extensive connections and personal contacts with some of the people who are now governing the place. And it'll be interesting to watch how the United States is able to use some of those connections going forward.
One of the points here, one of the reasons we ought to pay a lot of attention, both to what has happened but also what is going to happen going forward, is we want to draw the right lessons from it. And I think one of the lessons here is that democracy promotion, which can certainly happen in the Arab world, and we've seen other movements in that direction in other parts of the Arab world, is best served when it comes from the people themselves.
And what's most remarkable about what we've just witnessed is the fact that this was a grass-roots movement. It was remarkably disciplined, remarkably restrained, did not rely upon violence, certainly did not rely upon terrorism.
And so if we're interested in advancing freedom in that part of the world, the way to do it is not at the point of a gun or with the, you know, 82nd Airborne, but rather it's by encouraging the spread of democratic values within a society, helping grass-roots groups and then helping them, once something like we've just seen happen, does take place.
Absolute, and we have to recognize that that may involve an Egyptian government that is not quite as complicit or not quite as willing to do everything the United States wanted it to do.
A democratic Egypt I think will be a friend to the United States in many ways, but like all other countries, it's going to have its disagreements with the United States, as well, and it may - it may attempt to sort of press those disagreements more forcefully than Mubarak would have.
That's something I think we can easily live with, and it may actually even be healthy in the long run. But we have to be ready for that when it happens. It's not going to be quite as supine, perhaps, as the autocrat was.
One final thing is - and I agree with Fouad about this, as well, the United States should be careful not to claim too much credit for this. There's a tendency for American leaders always to want to sort of claim credit for any piece of good news that happens.
This is something that, again, the Egyptians did. We I think ultimately ended up on the right side of events there, but this is not one that we should be giving ourselves high-fives or anything like that.
Well, we've clearly drawn some lines already. I think the peace treaty with Israel is an obvious one, and the early signs there are fairly encouraging. I think there's no reason to believe that a democratic Egypt will not continue to cooperate in general on things like the war on terror.
It may not participate in things like extraordinary rendition, which Mubarak's government apparently did, but I think that would be a good thing because those are not good policies, as well.
You could argue, in fact, that this revolution is one of the greatest blows that's been struck against al-Qaeda since 2001 because it completely undermines the idea that the way to bring about political change in the Arab and Islamic world is through acts of terror.
In fact, the most important political change that's occurred in the Arab world now has happened through largely peaceful demonstrations. That's a complete repudiation of everything Osama bin Laden has written.
Well, certainly if the Egyptian authorities would like our assistance and the assistance from other democracies on practical guidance about, you know, election systems and things like that, then we ought to be willing to do that.
But I think the United States wants to avoid appearing to preach, as though we know everything there is to know about running an effective democracy. I mean, I think we all know from our country here that...
No, of course not, but there are flaws in every country, and the United States, we know, for example, that our democratic system doesn't always operate perfectly, even though I think all Americans basically support it.
So practical guidance, yes. We do have the sort of favorable opportunity here to be on the side of the angels, as it were. The United States does support democratic values. We support basic human rights, and there are times when there are tradeoffs between those interests and some of our other interests.
In this case, I think, there is not a big tradeoff, that trying to build a stable and democratic Egypt in our long-term security interests and certainly consistent with our long-standing commitment to political values.
We ought to recognize, though, that democracy is no guarantee, for example, of rapid economic development, of dramatic improvement in the lives of ordinary Egyptians. We can hope for all of those things, and we can certainly do what we can to try and produce that, but a democratic Egypt is going to have all of the virtues and vices that we know about from other democracies, including our own.
Absolutely. I think what we are going to see, though, is what we have witnessed over the last two weeks, which is the extraordinary pride that Egyptians have taken in seizing control of their own destiny again.
One of the great - you know, apart from the abuses of the Mubarak regime, reliance on torture, things like that, there was also the sense of economic and cultural stagnation in a country that had taken great pride in its role in Arab culture, as well.
I think the sense that they are once again, as one write put it, you know, in charge of their own narrative is going to be very empowering and quite possibly infectious in other places, as well.
I think that's right. I mean, the average American should be following these events as closely as they can, partly to learn from them, partly to gain an appreciation of just how significant the set of events this is.
Obviously, there are going to be opportunities for ordinary Americans if they wish to send donations, provide aid to aid agencies that are going to be helping the Egyptian economy.
But I would caution one other thing, which is that, you know, I think Americans, given our role in the world over the last 50 or 60 years, tend to assume that we either can or should be in charge of major events in every corner of the world. We have a tendency to sort of want to go in and tell people what to do, you know, be more like us, instill systems that are just like America.
And this is one where - although there will be clearly some similarities between a democratic Egypt and the United States, this ultimately has to be an Egyptian project. It will succeed if the Egyptian people succeed, not because the United States has either given orders or provided the blueprint here. This is one where we get to let them take charge of their own destiny.
I think that's right, but I agree with Fouad that there's no reason, I think, to be incredibly fearful of Islamic radicalism in the Egyptian case.
The Muslim Brotherhood got about 20 percent of the vote in the last election, which wasn't a fully free election by any means, but that was 2005. And that - in that election, their share of the vote was almost certainly inflated by the fact that they were sort of the main alternative to the governing party. So people who didn't like the governing party could cast a vote for the Muslim Brotherhood. I would not be surprised if their support, actually, declines as groups previously suppressed who weren't able to organize are allowed now to fully participate in politics.
I think we can watch this one, but I - we'll be surprised if Egypt evolves in a direction. There's no Khomeini-like figure that wants to -that has the stature that he had, for example, when the Iranian revolution took place. And I think there are many social forces within Egypt, as Fouad said, that would be strongly opposed to any such movement in that direction.
Thank you.

Nice to be here.
That's right. I think that this was very much Secretary Gates's swan song, his sort of last opportunity to set forth a vision and maybe throw a little bit of cold water, a realistic appraisal on the amount of money that's likely to be available to the Pentagon in the years to come. I think it's also - it's clear, he suggests we need a strong military, that there are various measures we can take to preserve that, but he wants people to be under no illusions that the kinds of increases we've had over the last decade that are associated primarily with the war on terror are not going to last, primarily because A) we can afford it, and B) because we don't need to spend that amount of money.
That's right. But one thing to do is put this in a little bit of historical perspective. Back in 1986, near the end of the Cold War, the United States and its allies together spent about 50 percent of global military spending, and our various adversaries had about 42 percent. So we were ahead, but not by a lot. Today, the United States plus its allies is about 70 percent of global military spending. You add up all of our possible adversaries, it's really only about 12 to 15 percent.
So we do actually have an enormous cushion compared to where we were at in the Cold War. And I think in part that's what Secretary Gates is pointing towards.
There's no question that we're going to face some political fights. Despite the fact that the Pentagon and the Obama administration didn't want the United States to continue buying two different engines for the F-35, Congress has managed to approve that, mostly because people in places like Massachusetts, where that engine was going to be built, wanted to make sure that those dollars got spent in their district.
So there will be politics involved in this process. And as Gates makes clear in his speech, there are some places where we need to rebuild the American military, after 10 years of being at war. He's not suggesting slashing of the budget by anywhere near the amount that it was cut between 1989 and 1998, after the end of the Cold War, where we cut things, you know, 20 to 30 percent. Nothing like that is in the cards.
In fact, the base budget is probably going to go up slightly, just not as much as we might have otherwise. And we're going to be spending some of that in recapitalizing the force and rebuilding or developing some new weapons systems. What he makes very clear, however, in his speech - and I'll quote him here -you know, we need to be honest. A smaller military, no matter how superb, will be able to go fewer places and be able to do fewer things. And he makes it clear that a smaller military is what we're going to have in the years to come.
I do see that as a harbinger of things to come. I mean, one of the things about having lots of allies around the world is that it's supposed to enhance our security. Allies are supposed to be able to contribute to what we're trying to accomplish, and particularly when it's even more in their interest than it is in ours.
I think Europeans had a much greater concern for what was happening in Libya because events there could affect them in a variety of ways. And for the United States to play a primarily supporting role and expect them to take the lead is both the right way to proceed here, but also likely to be a bit of a harbinger of what we try to do at least in some parts of the world in the years to come.
None of these things are mysterious. I mean, these various budget games and defense manipulations have been practiced in the past. They'll be practiced in the future. And what you hope, of course, is that we have a sufficiently, you know, well-trained, well-prepared civilian leadership in the Pentagon to keep that sort of thing to a minimum.
The other part of this problem, of course, is thinking very clearly about our priorities as a country and what parts of the world matter. What are the places where the United States is going to want to maintain a significant military presence? What are the places where we can allow local allies to carry the principal burden? And can we avoid sort of getting dragged in or, in some cases, leaping headlong into conflicts that actually don't, you know, contribute much to our national security or to anything else?
If you just consider the amount of money that was spent over the last decade on Iraq and Afghanistan, and you imagine some of that money being spent on other aspects of national security and some of that money being spent on measures that would enhance the long-term productivity of American economy, I think the equation you get there is a United States that would actually be both wealthier and more secure had we not squandered a lot of resources there. That's the kind of thing we're going to have to be much smarter about in the future.
Yeah. Well, I think that there are several things would make it less likely that we would do things like this. Certainly, the fact that we managed to fight these two wars without raising taxes, without expecting immediate sacrifices from every American, and basically borrowed the money to do, it has made it more comfortable for people here at home. And, of course, there's now lots of recognition that the debt that the United States is facing, if not corrected soon, is going to cost us real economic problems that we will actually feel. And this is, of course, why Secretary Gates is saying, get ready, get used to living with less.
The other part of the equation, of course, is the all-volunteer force. And one can make a good economic, purely economic argument in favor of an all-volunteer force. But the fact is we now have a military that it consists entirely of volunteers, and that is an easier military to send all over the world than one that might draw any American from any social class into it as happened in previous periods of our history.
And I think we have to ask a larger question as a country, do we really want a military which where the burdens of fighting overseas is concentrated on a small group of self-selected people, and the rest of us can sit back here and sort of pretend it's not really happening.
I think he's going to be regarded as a remarkably effective secretary of defense. And he is helped by the fact that his predecessor, Donald Rumsfeld, is now regarded as one of the worst in history. But he came into a situation where we were not doing well in Iraq, and we had lots of problems in Afghanistan, and I think he has managed both to turn things around in Iraq -not leading to victory, but allowing us to get out finally. And he has managed to ride herd in a sensible way on the military and on the Pentagon itself, which is probably the world's most difficult bureaucracy to manage.
Nobody performs 100 percent. He wasn't right about absolutely everything, but I think overall, his tenure was mature, realistic and sensible. And I hope most Americans will read that final speech and take a lot of what he had to say to heart.
I had my doubts. I had never been a fan of his earlier incarnations as - by his own admission, very much a hard-lying cold warrior who got some things sort of badly wrong about the collapse of the Soviet Union. But he's actually performed quite well in a number of other roles since then, and he seemed to have been the right man for the job this time around.
My pleasure.
