Great to be with you, Neal.
Oh, I think there are big differences between them, and as I said in the post, Tzipi Livni, who I rather do like generally, and if you're interested in earnestly achieving some sort of peace arrangement or a process with the Palestinians, it seems to me that Bibi Netanyahu is far more in touch with the more strident part of Israel's political character right now, and it is that part of Israel that we need to do some deal making with. It's also, I think, important for Americans to realize that to some degree, as Zbigniew Brzezinski has said, neither the Israelis nor Palestinians have shown very much maturity about their own affairs.
They've not come together over a very long period of time, and it's important to move above them in my view. We've been very much in the weeds and trying to earnestly achieve a peace deal, trying to achieve a balance, trying to reward moderates, and it's just not working. And right now, I think that we might need to try and, you know, take the tough dose with Netanyahu. He's done deals before. But I think it also will show Americans that these two players on both sides are just too strategically immature with their own interests to be trusted with them any longer.
Well, the Palestinians and the Israelis. I think the Palestinians and what Hamas and Fatah have both done have also been, to some degree, have undermined their own position and situation. And if this were 20 years ago or 30 years ago, one could walk away from it and say, it's too bad; let's keep working. But the failure to achieve any kind of equilibrium in this region is having greater and greater consequences for U.S. national security and for the security and stability of the region. And at this point, I think other great power stakeholders in the region - also Europe, also the United States, also Russia - have to just say, enough is enough. And I think it's easier to do that with Netanyahu in place than it would be with Livni or Barak.
Well, to some degree, an earnest agreement has somewhat been a fake and artificial process. To some degree, it's been fascinating. I think Obama's National Security Council staff has some very good people on it. But the dominant view on that team right now is, let's now make Mahmoud Abbas a winner and show Palestinians that we can shower goodies on him that he can then distribute to the Palestinian people, and he will be profiled and juxtaposed differently to what Hamas can do to deliver. I think it's too much too late for that strategy. And to some degree, we failed for quite a long time to make the moderates and Mahmoud Abbas a winner in the process of trying to have nonviolent negotiations with the Israelis.
So - and one other fascinating thing is Avigdor Lieberman's surge. Avigdor Lieberman is essentially the Hamas of Israel politics. He's a rejectionist. He's an ethnic disaggregationist. He wants to export Arabs and Palestinians outside of Israel. And to some degree, you have an interesting door opened if he does end up in the government, which is, what's wrong with talking to Hamas and imagining a government with Hamas when you have the same type of rejectionism in the Israeli government??
Well, I wouldn't call them equal, but I do think that it's an important issue of...
Right.
Sure.
And you could - you can take it further. I think, Yitzhak Rabin got, you know, met very tragic consequences for his moving forward and he was not anyone, anyone could accuse of being a left or progressive on these issues. And I also think Ariel Sharon made a very, very important statement when he was prime minister before his stroke. He talked to his own constituents, his own right-wing, and said, behind this desk, issues look differently, the world looks differently, and if we want to survive as a great state, we want to maintain our character as a Jewish state and as a democracy, we must move and must extract ourselves from Gaza and other of the occupied territories. That was Ariel Sharon.
That's right.
I absolutely agree. I think the settlement expansion is the toxic aspect that's undermining the foundation of any possibility of hope here. So, it raises the question of, when we saw Gaza take place, the Israeli incursion into Gaza, the tit-for-tat between Hamas and Israel and this really horrific exchange, Zbigniew Brzezinski was on one of the local - one of the major TV shows and made a point that really struck home with me, which was, this is tragic, but yet it's all part of a predictable blur of an ongoing set of rejectionism on both sides and the incapability of either the Palestinians or the Israelis to take this matter into their own hands.
And if you look at the history of these negotiations, though there have been times where there was greater engagement and more effective American engagement than others, on the whole, we've maintained a narrative and a fiction that Israel and Palestine had to negotiate this on their own; it wouldn't be done for them. I think the time has come for Americans to rid themselves of that fiction, and it's easier to do that when you see the flamboyant behaviors that you see both by Hamas and by, possibly, Bibi Netanyahu.
I think that's right. I think the real story is the surge of Lieberman's party. He used to be an eccentric on the side and periphery of the secular parties, and he's surged, election after election, to greater and greater strength.
Well, it's interesting. Ehud Barak is an interesting man. He's both a guy who came closest possibly to a peace deal; he's also...
That's right. He's also the guy more recently who, after the Annapolis process started, ratcheted it up the barriers to mobility for Palestinians by 20 percent higher than they already existed. To some degree when I was last in Israel and talking both to Livni's and Olmert's top negotiators and others, it was very clear that there was frustration in the cabinet with the way in which Barak was managing his defense portfolio, like he was trying to break their political backs by getting into a more hawkish position. And ironically, he's really moved himself, frankly, away from his own Labor Party base, which doesn't necessarily support that hawkishness.
I think the caller was referring to a segment done by Bob Simon of "60 Minutes." It was really an outstanding segment, and I recommend that people see it. Bibi Netanyahu's profile in this is to advocate expansion of the official settlements and further integration of those official settlements into Israel proper, and for unofficial settlements he's tended to turn a blind eye. What's interesting is, there are some people who say - and Bibi Netanyahu is intimating this himself - that he recognizes when he was prime minister last that he made mistakes, that he was immature, that he didn't do some things as well as he would have. We may see some changes in the way in which he approaches these issues because they're going to be fragile and they're going to be red-line items, partly for the Obama administration, depending on how he approaches them. So, without seeing him as prime minister, all we can do is go with what we saw in the past, and that is he's a very pro-settlement-association prime minister and who may, in fact, modify his position and dial that down a little bit, but we don't know yet.
That's right.
Well, let me just put it in the context. We often silo parts of the Middle East off from others. We talked about the Israel-Palestine situation devoid of other regional factors frequently. I think what's interesting about the approach that President Obama and his team have said they're going to take is it's going to be a look at the synergism between all of these issues. And in my mind we have a peace deal that was put on the table in 2002 by King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia that tries to offer a pathway forward. It's not perfect, but it's at least an opening play to say. there are 22 Arab states that we can normalize relations with Israel. Recently in a Financial Times piece, one of the Prince Turki(ph), former ambassador of Saudi Arabia in United States, essentially threaten that if things didn't begin to proceed in a different direction, that peace deal would be removed.
Why is this important and relevant to the Israel-Palestine situation? For me it's important for the United States because if we don't get Israel loosely on track with Sunni Arab states in the region, you're essentially turning over the entire region to Iran's pretensions. I'd like - I'd rather not see a war between Iran and the United States, and one way to confront Iran without doing so in a bilateral and a direct and a messy military way is to essentially try to put together a different construct in the broader Middle East. That's impossible without this Arab peace deal and Israel moving forward. And that's why I said Israel's leaders have been so remarkably strategically immature about their own interest. And the last comment I'll make about this is that the United States, somewhat as the security guarantor in part for Israel - imagine it like a levee in New Orleans that is slowly eroding with the perception of U.S. power, declining in the eyes of many around the world. It's very important that we begin showing that we can begin achieving the objectives we set out for ourselves and not letting this dissipate because the failure to achieve objectives translates into weakness. That's what we need to fix.
Well, the major critique of Ariel Sharon, though I just praised him, was Ariel Sharon did not negotiate at all with the Palestinians. This was completely a unilateral moved, again, completely undermining those moderates who kept saying, if we negotiate we can achieve things and nonetheless helping essentially to make Hamas a winner in that equation. So, it - unilateral moves of that sort are not the kind of thing. Trying to work across the lines with those people and generating a different equilibrium rules of the road, both states will need each other and be interacting with each other from here on out after a Palestinian state is created. None of that was created out of Ariel Sharon's unilateral move.
Right. As the more flamboyant he is...
Yes.
Well, my sense is that if you were that flamboyant, one, my view is that the winner, the party that got the most benefit believe it or not, out of the Israeli incursion into Gaza was Hamas itself. It's Hamas trying to harass a kind of flamboyant disproportionate action because its political enemies in the region are Fatah, wanting to look - we've now gutted Fatah's legitimacy in the eyes of Palestinians, and now Hamas is on the pedestal in the eyes of many Palestinians who hate the occupation of their territory. And it's also created an Arab empathy and sympathy across the region with the plight of the Gazans.
And so...
Right. So, when we go in to Israeli politics and see this happen, you've got both sides ratcheting up a fear-mongering and an escalation that right now is benefiting - and as I said, I think that this is highly irresponsible behavior on both sides absolutely, and we need to see that as Americans. In the past, a friend of mine - well, Brent Scowcroft used to say that the Israeli-Palestinian problem is treated as a domestic problem, not a foreign-policy one.
But now - in the United States. But now, with the failure over and over and over again to achieve a different balance, the consequences to the United States are now becoming dramatic enough. The problems and challenges, particularly with the potential coalition with Iran, dramatic enough that there's an enormous spotlight of attention across many spheres of American society and American politics, at a point of perceived weakness for the country that I think that the Israelis will not have the same kind of latitude to dictate the terms of that region as they have in the past. So, perhaps I'm off-base in the sense here that I'm asking for a bit of radicalism to try to educate the United States that it needs to engage much fully - as do the Europeans, as do the Russians, the U.N. and other major stewards in the Arab region as well. But I think flamboyant, crazy behavior might be helpful.

Hi. Always good to be with you, Neal.
I think it probably did. I think everything is watched very carefully over here for the nuances, and of course, here in the Pacific, we have, you know, quite a bit of a brouhaha escalating between the Chinese and Japanese, which most people look at as a test of not only Japan and China but really of the United States because Japan is seen as a proxy of American interests here.
You know, David Sanger wrote the Pool Report this evening, monitoring President Obama at the U.N., and he made an interesting comment that Wen Jiabao, the premier, when he spoke at their joint meeting, his arms were quite stiff, his face looked pretty sober, that he worked hard not to make any news. But there clearly wasn't a lot of affection in the meeting between Wen Jiabao and President Obama.
So I think you've got to look between the lines rather than at the lines when it comes to the issues going on with China because things have gone rather badly in U.S.-China relations compared to where they were a year ago.
I think that's absolutely right. I think that what you are seeing in Asia right now is a fundamental shift, and we need to get our head around how we're going to deal with it. Because during  you know, there was a joke that a friend of mine in the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs used to make. And I ask him: What is China's grand strategy? And he says, well, our strategy is how to keep you Americans distracting in small, Middle Eastern countries.
And during the Bush administration and substantially, you know, even as we saw in this U.N. speech from President Obama, there had been a sense in Asia that America was sort of absent, was distracted by other things.
And I think President Obama and Hillary Clinton and Defense Secretary Gates have worked hard to reestablish a deep presence in the region and have made many trips here and really been ratcheting that up at the same time that the world sees China rising.
It's sort of the Google of countries today, whereas the United States looks more like the General Motors of nations, if you will. And it's that promise of what China is becoming that is really changing the way global gravity, global power is working.
And I, you know, China is not a status-quo country wanting status-quo circumstances. It's expecting to get more respect and more latitude over what it sees as its core interest.
And we really need to get our own strategy in place, and right now it's just being here, but it's not necessarily evident what our long-term strategy is in the region.
Well, I think it's much more connected than many analysts normally give credit to. I think they - that China has a sort of nuanced approach. They like President Obama, to some degree, more than they like President Bush, but they haven't seen the signs that they would like to see of a confident, stable structure that - they sense - at least the line they're feeding various people over here, is that the White House is inconsistent. And that when it comes to other episodes around the world, the president isn't exactly winning.
Now, in cases like the nuclear security summit at the - that really did start at the U.N. General Assembly meeting last year. That is considered to be a solid move.
In climate change, China and the United States engaged each other, came out of the process through, you know, some tough arm wrestling and largely seemed happy with it. But when they - you know, I have had Chinese officials here talk both about Benjamin Netanyahu and the fact that they see - the fact that President Obama essentially lost the battle with a leader of a client state, in their view - that's something that China doesn't often do. And they see Afghanistan as, again, another constraint on America's power and America's ability to move around the world.
And so they see a sort of handicapped giant nation that it wants to see in a healthier way, but they don't think that the president yet has these issues resolved. So there's a doubt about American power, and I think it's one of the reasons why China is emerging more rapidly and quickly. It has - I wrote a piece once, called it sort of Beijing's fragile swagger, because even though there's a growing confidence in China, there's also a confession that comes along about how weak China feels and what a house of cards they feel they have being, you know, 100th in per capita income in the world and not being ready to be the kind of leader of the United States. So there's a real lament about the way they see the United States and President Obama.
Thanks.
