Jack used to like to say that it was a logical move for him from quarterbacking a football team to leading in politics. He…
For the - well, yeah, the Bills was where he was the star. He liked to talk about the fact that the same qualities of decisiveness that a quarterback needs are what you need in a good political leader. He was always interested in putting together an affirmative agenda, trying to figure out how to win the argument and move the ball forward politically just as he once had in sports.
Well, Jack was elected to Congress, of course, up in Buffalo in the early 1970s, and he didn't - he was a conservative but didn't have a particularly well-developed economic philosophy, but the economy turned sour in the early '70s, particularly in old-line industrial towns like Buffalo.
And Jack really immersed himself in learning about economics in order to find something that was positive and hopeful for his constituents, and he may not have had an academic background in economics. But, boy, I tell you, he was constantly reading, constantly devouring everything he could find about economics, and he developed a very well-defined philosophy, but it came out of his desire to say something to his constituents other than no.
I'm sorry to say that I don't think that they did, and they still should try. He didn't just think that it was a political strategy. Jack felt that as a deep passion. Most of us think that that had something to do with the fact that he did spend much of his life as a professional athlete and had to go to work every day with people of different races, particularly a lot of African-Americans and couldn't stand the fact that he got into the Republican Party, and it looked like an all-white country club.
So he was very passionate about the Republicans needing to do more to connect with minority voters, particularly African-American voters. And I'm sorry to say, the party did not do well in that regard and it's still a huge challenge facing the Republican Party.
He came downtown a couple weeks ago, and his son, Jimmy called some folks and said, hey, dad's feeling a little bit better, and why don't you come over and say hello. So I did. And he mentioned several times that he gained 10 pounds, which was good news because he'd been in, you know, chemotherapy, and we thought that he was at least going through a temporary sort of, you know, rebound, which, you know, people with cancer occasionally do.
So although I knew that he had an uphill fight for his life, I guess I thought that he was temporarily, at least, doing better, and I was really shocked last night to hear that he had died so soon after I sat and talked to him.
Thank you.

Great to be here, Neal.
Well, I think that that's right. I think  first of all, I think what's interesting, and I think Mark Skoda, who I thought was very articulate, by the way, really made this clear. The Tea Party, even though it's called the Tea Party, is not a political party. It's not likely to become a political party, maybe in some localized areas but not broadly.
It is a movement, a grassroots political movement. And people need to understand quite the distinction between a political movement and a political party.
Currently, the Republican Party has a very low identification in the polls. A couple of numbers that came out last year showed the Republicans at about their lowest, at 20, 20-plus percent. But conservative ideological identification at its highest level, at least according to the Gallop poll, 41 percent.
That's kind of been the case for a long time. And so, you look at this Tea Party phenomenon, the movement of the Tea Party, and you know that at least it begins with a whole lot of conservative-thinking people who, for whatever reason, do not want to identify with the Republican Party.
Mark Skoda did say that he was a Republican, but we know there are an awful lot of people out there who think of themselves as conservatives, but don't think that either party, including the Republicans, represent them well.
Oh, I think it's had a profound effect, by and large positive, I would add. We focus on this New York 23 race, where a Democrat was elected. I think that's very much an aberration. And if you hadn't had the peculiarities of New York election law, it would not have occurred that way.
In most other states, certainly in my state of Minnesota, you could not have a handful of party leaders sit down in a room and pick the most liberal Republican available as a nominee. An endorsing convention or a primary would have chosen someone more acceptable, and Republicans probably would have won that seat.
But I think that the movement has had an impact on the Republican Party. For one thing, many Republicans today are very nervous  who were in Congress last year  are nervous about their votes for the TARP program. If you talk to a lot of the Tea Party activists around the country, what they're unhappy with the Republicans about, it sort of goes back to TARP.
The bank bailout, the emergency bill passed at the end of the Bush administration, in the view of Secretary of Paulson and others, to avert financial collapse. And a lot of Republicans voted for it for that reason. But the Tea Party folks are very unhappy with that vote. They view that as the beginning of this excessive expansion of the federal government. And so, they have  you won't find hardly any Republicans today defending that.
Another case that I cite, in the health care deliberations, as we all know, Senator Grassley from Iowa - who's really one of the most respected Republicans on Capitol Hill - was participating with Senator Baucus in the bipartisan talks to come together around a health care bill that both parties could support. He went home last summer to Iowa and found out that the grass roots, the tea partiers, if you will, were very angry about that and sent him a very strong message to come back and resist the Democrats' health care bill, and he really did.
Now, I use Senator Grassley because he was ranking member of the committee, a senior guy and really the most popular and respected politician in Iowa. But that message was received by Republicans all across the country who might have wanted to cooperate in some way, but found that their constituency really didn't want that.
Well, that's what's so interesting about this is, you know, let me  just a little bit of history. About the first half of the last century, the independent movements, populist movements, were all on the left. That's where the energy was: populism, progressivism, all the way up to the '60s.
Since then, independent movements outside the party, whether it's the American Party Movement back in the '60s and '70s or Ross Perot or even the Libertarian Party, have mainly been right-of-center movements.
We kind of all thought that that  or at least in my case  worried that might be coming to an end with this tremendous grassroots progressive movement that helped propel Senator Obama into the presidency. And now we see this reaction against it almost immediately, and you kind of wonder if the country really had changed that much or if maybe that independent impulse out there once again is on the right, as it's been for quite, quite a while.
The fact is that even though President Bush and his administration were branded as very far to the right, it was really a couple of specific things that caused that very extreme, unhappiness with the Iraq war. You know, I don't think Iraq war was an ideological war, but it was - it made people on the left very inflamed. The administration of George W. Bush was not particularly right wing.
Look at the spending policies which motivate the tea party people: No Child Left Behind, the prescription drug benefit, a lot of intrusions of the federal government and to - and those cases, education and health care that traditional conservatives would have just found objectionable. And lo and behold, were finding a grassroots movement reflecting that.
Right. I think a lot of people think that. It's very important that in times of economic distress you do give rise to a lot of populist movements, sometimes on the left, sometimes on the right, sometimes indistinguishable. But I think that's what Joe's call was about from Orlando. I feel bad for him in this situation. I would only point out that some conservative voices have been arguing against the mark-to-market phenomenon for a long time, notably Steve Forbes at Forbes magazine. So I hope he can find his way out of this difficulty.
Well, certainly, the Grassroots activists out there are looking for a candidate early on and Sarah Palin has a lot of support. You can see it in the polls. She has held up quite well, really a bit better than most anybody would've expected. But I don't think that she is necessarily the frontrunner and I don't, myself, think that she is likely to run - I could be wrong about that, that's just intuitively on my point - my part.
But I think that all of the candidates - as we talked about earlier - all of the candidates are going to adjust to this phenomenon. Ron talked about the fact there are some primaries, indeed, around the country. Maybe somebody'll even be defeated a candidate, a two-party candidate, at a primary. But the main impact will because Republican incumbents and front running candidates for open seats to adjust their platforms. They see...
Yeah. They will want to take on the tea party movement directly. They want to earn their support at the polls. You're seeing that all over the country. And I think that that's what's going to happen in the presidential race, as well. The presidential candidates are going to be talking about credible plans to reduce the size and scope of government, probably more ambitiously than anyone since Ronald Reagan.
Thank you, Neal.

Great to be back with you on this beautiful day in Washington, D.C.
An inopportune choice of words on his part, but I think that if you actually take out the vitriol of that statement, sure, the president  if the president were defeated on his primary domestic initiative, and he chose to make it his primary domestic initiative, it could've been something else, but it wasn't, it was health care  it would have set him back tremendously in terms of his ability to control legislative process.
And that did not happen. I personally never thought it would happen. I thought the big question over the last year was not so much would the Democrats win when they brought something to floor but what would they bring to the floor. Would they see that the politics of a bill like they passed ultimately was too dangerous and scale back to something narrower?
They didn't do that. They decided to press ahead. They got the votes, and they won. Clearly, if he had lost, it would have not ended his presidency. I mean, you know, Bill Clinton lost, if you will, and he came back to be a successful president, but it certainly would have set this president back. And in terms of articulating a distinctly progressive agenda, it would have set him way back.
It'll be part of a number one issue. I have to explain that a little bit. As you might expect, I don't agree entirely with Anna on this.
But with a lot of what she says. I do not think a campaign to, quote, "repeal" health care is going to be in the cards for very long. You're already seeing Mitch McConnell, Paul Ryan from the House and others starting to replace the rhetoric of repeal with repeal, reform and replace.
My view is that ultimately the Republicans will run on a broad issue of expansion of government - borrowing, spending, deficits, taxing - and health care will certainly be a part of that, maybe even the centerpiece of that, but it'll be a broader issue.
The Republicans have done well on that issue. The polling not just recently but for months and months and months have shown rising public concern about the expansion of the government, particularly deficits and debt, but taxes as well, particularly in states where they have been raising local taxes, and I think that's where health care will help Republicans, is as a part of that broader issue, not as a narrowly focused campaign to, quote, "repeal."
I think that that  I think the Republicans are very emotional about this, including Senator McCain but certainly not limited to him. You're right. There hasn't been a lot of cooperation over the last year or more, and I don't think I would broadcast that to the country.
I think that as we go forward, there are going to be a lot of issues on which there still is not going to be any cooperation. We'll see what the president does on his environmental and climate change agenda, but that doesn't look to me likely any more to be something we can cooperate on because I don't think he's going to want to compromise after having won a progressive victory on health care reform.
On the other hand, we have some issues that aren't really on the front burner with many people right now. We may have a START treaty with the Russians completed.
Okay, well, you're ahead of me. That has to be ratified by the Senate. We do not want to conduct, you know, a centerpiece policy of the United States security policy on a partisan basis. So there's going to be some areas where there ought to be cooperation, as there has been, by the way, in Afghanistan.
This is not a foreign policy election as of today. It may not become one, but those are important issues, and I think at the end of the day there is a potential for cooperation on those issues, much less so on the domestic side of the agenda.
But for the Republicans, I've got say a party that was, at the last election, shattered. Some people were saying the Republican Party should go out of new business, we need a new party. To be even competitive in the California Senate race shows that the Republican Party has come a long way in the last year.
I know Barbara Boxer. I served with her in the House of Representatives. Most of the time you'd say she wouldn't have even had a serious challenge.
How about Republicans on this program?
And although it is a smart route for Matheson, probably, and others like that, it's limited protection. I mean, an off election is a turnout election. If the broad winds of politics, this time, turn more Republicans out because they're mad about the health care bill. They're going to kind of forget the fact that the Democrat from their district might have voted against it and they're going to just vote for the Republican. So it's limited protection. It's smarter than going - than throwing yourself on a sword in a conservative district, but it doesn't protect you completely.
I pay a lot of attention to Wisconsin. It's actually my favorite state, east of Minnesota. And the upper Midwest, where I come from and where the caller comes from, is an area of the country that has probably swung fairly more dramatically than other parts of the country. You go back 20, 30, 40 years. When I first started out in politics, the five-state Upper Midwest region, I think, was nine Democrats and one Republican. A couple of election cycles, it's eight Republicans and two Democrats. Now, it's kind of going back the other way.
I don't know that you have seen that kind of a swing in another region in the country. So Wisconsin is a state that can go either way. Feingold is a very capable politician, but he's vulnerable in this climate if it continues to favor the Republicans - which is an if.
It's picked up a lot, yeah. We've done a really good job. The House campaign committee still has a - is at a disadvantage from  to the Democrats in terms of the amount of money they got on hand. They're raising as much but they didn't raised as much earlier.

Great to be with you. I'd like to get my political junkie T-shirt from Ken now.
Oh jeez.
I may have better luck trying to buy you off, Ken.
Thank you very much. I think congratulations go to Governor Romney. But since I'm surrogating for him today, I'll accept it.
Well, Mitt Romney is not a big sleeper. He's a worker. I do think that the pace of the campaign obviously changes. And, you know, anybody who's been on the road with a candidate, much less somebody who has been a candidate, will tell you that there is a sense of relief when you're not constantly up in competition with somebody, and that will shift now quite a bit for Governor Romney.
But I do think you have to emphasize that there's different things now that require the attention of the campaign. Yes, we've got a few months where there's a challenge in terms of visibility, but it also means you've got a few months when you have time to actually go out and raise the money, which is necessary; hone your message for the fall campaign in a thoughtful way, as opposed to kind of the instant reactions that you have to do when you're going from primary to primary to primary.
And the whole pace of the campaign changes quite a bit, but there's a lot to do.
Yeah, kind of. I think yes, there are things that happen now that require a little more reflection, a little more conversation. But I want to emphasize that the pace of a campaign, a presidential campaign, in my experience, really doesn't slow down substantially. You're in a marathon all the way through until November, and there's just a lot of work to be done.
Well, I think Governor Romney is an excellent candidate, and I think we're going to find that out as we go forward, that the time that he has put into this campaign has really served him well. You know, running for president is a unique experience in all of life, and somebody who hasn't done it before, and that includes me, can't know exactly what it's like. But I think Governor Romney is an experienced candidate.
The Santorum challenge probably, on balance, was helpful in terms of honing his rhetorical skills and getting him ready for the attacks that are bound to come from the other side. Obviously, we would have liked to have ended it a little sooner just so we could devote our attention to President Obama, put some money in the bank and things like that. But it was not harmful.
Well, I think Ed is exactly right, and I like that phrase, working worried. I think, Ed, that describes it really, really well. I don't think that Governor Romney has to do a whole lot of changing of positions, if that's what we're talking about. The main thing that needs to happen now is that you re-emphasize the economic message, which is what exactly those working worried voters that Ed described are concerned about, as opposed to some of the other issues that come up more often in the campaign.
But Governor Romney has really focused on the economic message for a long time now. Nobody is going to look at him talking about the economy and say gee, Mitt Romney's trying to reinvent himself. That has been the Romney message from the beginning of this campaign.
Yeah. Well, I think his family is a huge asset. As frankly, President Obama's family is an asset to him, too. But Anne Romney has proven to be tremendous on the campaign trail. And I've gotten to know her quite a bit. The five Romney sons I've met. I don't know them well, but they're also tremendous. And they have no problem connecting with anybody at all, whether it's their dad or the average voter. So I think a lot of that on the campaign trail will be helpful. And then I'm taking in Ed's suggestion on the vice presidency, that you don't - the - I understand what you're saying, Ed. The other side of the coin is, you know, we've always wanted to go into the convention with the Republican base fired up as the convention opens. And that's why they've kind of done it later on. But, you know, whenever he picks, I think he's going to be pick a good person.
Great to be with you.

Great, I have to add one thing to my introduction, also a trustee of the Aspen Institute, and on behalf of the Institute, welcome to Aspen.
That is clearly the right question.
The Wall Street Journal poll out today really is very instructive and underscores just what Anna said. It shows that the race, nationwide, is very close, 47 to 44, the president ahead but within the margin of error. That's not a bad position for a challenger to be at.
Then you look a little more closely, and it shows that in the key battleground states, the president has a larger lead. So, you know, we're at a stage in this discussion already of where we'd usually be about the middle of October, where we're down to a half-a-dozen states, and the battle is being waged in those states, and the outcome is going to turn on how they end up.
That's usually a discussion you'd have well into the fall, and here we are in June already narrowing the race down to a handful of states.
It partly does speak also to a broader issue that we talk about occasionally, which is the polarization in America generally. One of the reasons we're focused on a small handful of states is because the rest of the country is pretty polarized.
Most of the blue states are bluer than ever; most of the red states are redder than ever. And we're down to just a small number that truly could go either way.
And one of the things I might add, just real briefly, it's also interesting in terms of the politics of this election to note that most of those states that we just were talking about also have the most highly contested Senate races in them.
So it may be that we're deciding both control of the United States Senate and the presidency in the same small handful of states.
Well, ultimately it's not going to help the United States. In the short run, paradoxically, there are some ways in which it actually does help us, as money flees Europe and comes to the safest haven available, the United States. So it hasn't really hurt our economy yet.
But, you know, it's interesting we're talking about immigration this week, and we're talking about all sorts of other issues. Probably the most important - and the health care decision certainly coming down tomorrow. Neither one of those things is nearly as important as the jobs report for June, which I think comes out the end of next week.
I would only add one point to what we've been talking about here in terms of the economy. The caller was saying people look at the economic data the last two months of the election. There's a lot of academic evidence that says that people lock in their attitudes about the economy in an election year right about now, June or July.
You get past the middle of the summer, and it's very difficult to change people's underlying perceptions of whether the economy is doing well or not doing well.
He is not going to run. He is going to the convention. I was not quite aware that he'd endorsed Mitt Romney yet...
His son, his son has been very helpful. Ron is going to go to the convention, and he's going to try to make a stand there. Under the rules of the Republican Party, if he has a majority or plurality of five state delegations, his name can be placed in nomination, floor demonstrations, speeches and all those things.
I think he's sitting at four states right now, and they're engaged in a series of battles to see if he can get to five. But he's not going to run in the fall. He has, give him credit, been in this fight for a long time to advance his principles and his ideas, and he's advanced them further in this election than he ever did in the past, but he's not going to be on the ballot.
That's right.
Well, I think - I pretty much agree. I think the president and then Senator Obama had a big spending advantage over Senator McCain four years ago, and because neither one of them were incumbents and because Obama was far less well-known than McCain, who after all had ran for president before, the financial advantage was really helpful to him as a first-time candidate for president. But I agree with Anna. Everybody knows the president pretty much.
What the Obama campaign says they're doing with this money, by the way, is not trying to get the president better known or change people's attitudes a lot about him, but invest in what they call the ground game and have a whole variety of techniques through social media and everything else to turn out larger numbers of their voters. We'll see if that's possible or not.
Oh, yeah. I mean it's a paradox. Certainly the candidates are glad to have lots of money spent through the superPACs on their own behalf, but they would much rather direct the spending themselves. Somebody gets off message, says something that's unacceptable, and it can cause them a lot of problems, even though they genuinely don't have control over that message.
Well, and he's - in both cases he's mobilizing specific constituencies that have been supportive of him, and that he is trying to get to turn out in larger numbers in this election. But I think that the broader message there - and I'm sure the Romney people understand this - is it shows one of the difficulties of running against an incumbent president, which is that the president can actually do things. His challenger can talk about things, but the president can actually do things that change the game, and that's what this president is showing himself quite willing and able to do.
And let's remember what we started out talking about here a little bit. We've got four months of the economy changing one way or the other. And if it does change one way or the other, the impact that will have on the electorate will swamp all these smaller issues we've been talking about, as important as they may be to specific constituencies.
Doesn't look like it. When the economy is the central issue, in the absence of something big happening internationally, it's not likely to displace the economy as an issue. I think that there are a lot of very serious foreign policy questions we should be talking about - Iran and North Korea, you know, the Middle East, Egypt, all sorts of things - and I say that really in a nonpartisan way. I just think they're big issues. But it's unlikely that they're going to drive the vote, unless something happens in the world unexpected between now and November.
Thank you.

Great to be with you today.
After I left Congress, we formed an organization called Empower America with the late Jack Kemp, Bill Bennett, Jeane Kirkpatrick, and I was the president of the organization. Paul came and went to work for us in our first two years in existence mainly because of his passionate interest in the ideas we were advancing and, frankly, to be around Jack Kemp, who is sort of a hero figure to him and who many of us thought would be running for president in the next four years.
He has really thought through comprehensively an approach to the biggest problem facing the country today, in my personal opinion, and that is this looming debt crisis that we face. Paul is the guy in the trenches, the active elected official that has actually done the most to think through a comprehensive approach to entitlement reform, taxes, spending and debt, and that's a huge, huge contribution to this ticket.
I think that we've got to engage the debate and win the argument. We have to explain to seniors as well as younger voters who are coming up and going to have to face this that the present track that Medicare is on is not sustainable. We can save Medicare. We can have a Medicare program for me and for my kids and for our grandchildren, but we can't just pretend that it doesn't need to be changed. Paul has put forward a plan for saving Medicare and doing it consistently with our budget problem.
I think that Romney has his own agenda, and he's clearly the head of the ticket. We have to remember that even though today's focus is all on Paul Ryan for vice president, Mitt Romney is still the guy who's going to be the nominee, and he reserves the right to put forward his own plan. A lot of Paul's expertise, though, is going to be brought to bear on this problem.
And, of course, whoever gets elected has to negotiate with the Congress to a certain extent. And I would argue both Republicans and Democrats, a big solution to a problem like this can't really be done on a party line vote. I think that Romney has said encouraging things about Ryan's plan, but I think he is going to reserve the right to have the Romney plan as opposed to the Ryan plan.
Well, it gives us a philosophical distinction, and that's - and you've described it the way that the Democrats will describe it. And so from their standpoint, sure, I can understand why liberal Democrats who want to have the philosophical argument that we want to have on the other side, obviously, would be delighted with this pick. But I think that they're going to be surprised when they find out how strongly the country feels about some of these issues.
The 2010 election sent a very strong signal about how the country is feeling about the growth of government, the growth of debt, the growth of spending and the growth of taxation. And I think Democrats are going to find out that the country is not quite as ready to buy their line as they think they are.
Thank you very much. Good to be with you today.

Good to be with you.
Well, you know, all of us surrogates have to say that about our candidates, and I'm sure Governor Patrick both believes it. But I also know that we've never gone into a presidential election with really a higher degree of uncertainty about the outcome in my adult lifetime. The Romney campaign is expanding the playing field. We believe we have opportunities in states that were not in play three, four months ago that we certainly didn't think would be in play a year ago.
But we can see it's a close election, and, you know, we've got polls on both sides and experts that are projecting different things on Tuesday night. I think Governor Romney is going to win. And I don't think it's going to be quite as close as people think. But, you know, Governor Patrick's a good guy, and he's campaigning for his candidate.
Yes. Ohio's very important. It's much, much easier to get to the White House if you're a Republican if you win Ohio, and we think that we are knocking on the door in Ohio. But there is still a path. It requires you to win a bunch of states that are tough. You've got to win Wisconsin, probably Iowa, probably Nevada, and those are tough states to win, no question about it.
The other path, though, that we're pursuing - and you'll see it in both our advertising spending and in Governor Romney's schedule for the weekend - is that over the last week, really, Pennsylvania has come into play. And we believe that's real. We're spending money there. I would point out that Democrats must think it's real, too, because they're also spending money there. There are different ways to get there. Clearly, we want to carry Ohio. We're putting a lot of effort into Ohio. We think we can carry Ohio, but there are other ways of getting there.
The best case is that even if you believe we did the right things under this administration in reacting immediately to the crisis of the economy in 2008, 2009, we have not seen the kind of recovery that we should see because we have put too big a burden on the private sector. This administration's own projections are that in the next four years, if President Obama's re-elected, we will add $10 trillion to the national debt.
That's the Obama administration's own prediction, a doubling of the national debt. That is an anchor around the economy. We will never get this economy going faster if we don't change policies. And Governor Romney has promised a change in policy to get us back to high growth, good jobs and rising incomes.
Thanks very much. Good to be with you.

Great to be with you.
Yeah. The main lesson for Republicans is it's much more disappointing when you expect to win and lose. That was a big shock. And I have to say, I, at the end of the day, drank the Kool-Aid along with most of the rest of my Republican friends. I went into election night believing Karl Rove and Dick Morris and the Romney campaign and Fox News and people like that, that said that the Democrats had modeled the electorate improperly. I made a huge mistake. I should've called Anna, ask her. She would've set me straight, but I didn't do that, so I thought we were going to win. They were wrong.
And they, as Anna points out, what we learned is this - the electorate that showed up in 2008 was not an aberration. It is the electorate going forward, with one qualification. There's the difference in midterm elections. But the country's changed, and Republicans are going to have to grips with that. And the fact that they thought that they were going to win led to a much deeper disappointment on part of the Republicans.
Well, Romney won a lot of arguments. If you look at post-election polling, he did win some arguments about who's better to manage the economy and things like that. But one dimension that he lost, just overwhelmingly, was the question of - cares about people like me or understands the concerns of people like me. And that was not just a narrow loss. It was like seven, eight to one margin. And that goal is - maybe there's some flaws on our side, but also to the effectiveness of the Obama campaign because that's what much of their campaign over the summer when they attacked Bain Capital and things like that was aimed at bringing up - was that whatever you may think about Mitt Romney, however much you might like the fact that he's a businessmen, he is not like you, and he doesn't get you. And unfortunately, we did not rebut that, and that really stuck on much.
I'm afraid I agree.
She's proving her grassroots (unintelligible).
Well, on the first point, let's - I think that the Romney campaign made some mistakes. But on ballots, Mitt Romney was a very strong candidate. Well, remember where we were four years ago. We basically didn't have a campaign. I mean, John McCain had gone from winning basically a one primary victory to put in together a national campaign that wasn't really a national campaign. Romney put together a strong national campaign for us, despite many things that he did that weren't very strong. And I think that you need to acknowledge that on his part.
I do think that they - we made a mistake on the immigration issue in the course of the primary debates. And I think that your - the reaction that Anna and others have talked about with, now Charles Krauthammer, saying we should stand up for amnesty. Sean Hannity is saying he's changing his position or moving his position, evolving his position in immigration. I think that there is a market in the Republican Party and was a market for a different approach to immigration if we'd actually debated it out in the course of those umpteen many debates the Republicans had.
But there was a fear that that was not the case. And on the Romney campaign side, the fear was Rick Perry, that he was going to get to the right of Governor Romney, and coming from the largest Republican state in the country or red state in the country, that he would sweep through the primaries. That didn't prove to be true, but that pushed Romney to his right on immigration, and he paid for it a lot on Election Day.
You know, these are - I'm just troubled by that, enormously. These are not new issues. I mean, the abortion issue has been around since Roe versus Wade in 1973. We've argued it on a lot of different campaigns. You kind of have to learn how to talk about your deepest felt convictions on these issues, without deeply offending everybody that disagrees with you. It seems to me that the party, my party has lost sight of that fact. I don't want to tell people who have deeply held convictions on either side of these issues that they should just abandon them for political reasons. But they do need to understand that people disagree passionately with them, and the way you talk about those kinds of issues is very, very important. And we lost that lesson. We are only talking to ourselves and only listening to ourselves.
You know, I also think the opposite side of that, unfortunately, was true for Republicans in that you look at North Dakota and Montana, for instance, where Republicans thought they were going to win. We thought - I thought we were going to win largely because I thought Mitt Romney would win large - by a large margin, which he did, but there weren't any coattails there. The president seemed to have coattails in those states like Virginia and Florida, Ohio maybe where Republicans thought they have a chance - had a chance. But where Romney won big, and we had competitive Senate races, it didn't help the Republicans. I saw this also in some returns I looked at in my home state of Minnesota for legislative races where Romney did really, really well but the Republican legislators lost.
So I don't know how to explain that phenomenon. Maybe Ken, just coming off of his birthday celebration, can tell us what that means.
So was I. So was I.
But this is not all just smart or ruthless redistricting. The Republican vote is more dispersed across the country. The Democratic vote is more concentrated, particularly in urban centers. And it's really hard to draw a maps that don't reflect that.
That's a question that's hard to answer. I mean, they made just a great big mistake. They projected their own values and philosophy on the electorate turnout model they were predicting. In other words, that they saw the country that they wanted to see, and so that who's going to vote. And they were just wrong about - but I really don't know the answer to the question because these are not just, you know, pundits. We had a lot of people with a lot of scientific background in polling, you know, and that have done it for years and years, highly respectable, and they came to the same conclusions. They were all wrong.
Yeah. I mean, the Obama campaign was, maybe, one of the best ever in presidential history. I don't think that the Romney campaign was quite as bad as the caller indicated. But clearly, it was not at the level of Obama. And the ground game never quite came together. There's been a lot written about that. Republicans thought they had something that would turn out the vote of election, and it just never quite worked.
Having said all of this, let's put this in perspective. It was about a 50 to 48 election. It was a very close national popular vote, significantly closer than it was four years ago. So, you know, Republicans did some things well. I think the real challenge is the ones we talked about before. What are we doing with the growing sectors of the electorate like Hispanics where we got 27, 28 percent, or with the Asians were collapsing in ways that shouldn't be? Those are real issues. But the overall vote was actually fairly close.
But it's what's matters to this question of does the president have a mandate? And we certainly heard from Democrats when George Bush lost the popular vote.
Not much. I mean, the two campaigns were fairly, evenly matched moneywise if you count inside money and outside money. And at the end of the day, the Democrats won I don't think as hugely as some people think they did. But, you know, it's hard to look at the money that was spent by somebody else, that group, and saying it had made a major impact. It probably did not.
I think less than you might think. I mean, it could become durable. He can claim it, and Republicans can continue to lose it. But it wasn't too many years ago, like two years ago, the Republicans won a sweeping mid-term victory, the largest victory since the 1930s, really, in terms of the House races.
I - the African-American vote is solid in the Democratic Party. There doesn't seem to be any evidence that that's going to slip. I'm not ready to say the same thing about the Hispanic vote. I think Republicans have to do a lot of work there. But I think that there's flexibility, they can and must show some progress there, as well as with the Asian community. And young voters are kind of notoriously fluid partially because the people who are young voters the next election are going to be different than the people who are young voters this election. So Republicans have a lot of work to do, but this is not yet a solidified coalition against the Republican Party.
And the Medicare issue will affect the tax issue, the other big part of this fiscal problem we're talking about. Republicans have shown a little willingness to move on the issue of revenues. We don't know how far they're willing to move. But I can guarantee you, when we get to the point of actually making decisions, part of the formula Republicans are going to look at when they ask themselves what should I support in the revenue side is going to be how much have we managed to reduce the growth in Medicare spending?
And I think Anna is probably right. That's going to complicate it because Democrats are going to be very resistant of that. And Republicans are going to look at that and say, well, why should we give up on what we care about, which is taxes, as the Democrats aren't going to give on what they care about?
Well, I think - the way I would put it, I think there are going to be discussions about some issues. Immigration is going to be the most notable one. You know, a lot of people like me who consider ourselves conservative Republicans have always been in favor of what people might think of as a, quote, "liberal position," on immigration. That's going to come out now.
And I think that there are some issues. You know, marginal tax rates matter a lot more to many Republicans than the issue of no new taxes at all. But the Republicans aren't going to abandon their core beliefs on a lot of issues because of this election, and they shouldn't.
Happy birthday, Ken.
