I think Easy is a very      interesting character, and he's an unusual character for America inasmuch      as he's a black male hero.  There are not a lot of black male heroic      characters in America, characters that you want to be like, you know, not      that you just respect, but you want to be like them.  Also, I've been      writing this novel--the first book about him, "Gone Fishin," is 1939.      This book is 1966. I'm following a life.  He gets older.  The world      changes, and so it's possible to see him in different ways and in      different lights.
Well, number 10 is kind of the opposite of the previous      book, "Little Scarlet."  You have the Watts riot.  You have a very big      external event that changes black relations in America.  This is about 11      months later. Easy's daughter has a blood disease.  There's nobody in      America who can cure that blood disease.  There's one place in      Switzerland that would even try.  He can't get any money out of his      property because of the riots that have, you know, lowered all the      property value under what his mortgage is.  And so Easy has a choice.  He      can either go out with Mouse and rob an armored car in Texas.  Mouse has      set it all up, and he's ready to go.  Or he can do a job as a private      detective for a guy up in San Francisco.  It would be much safer to rob      that armored car.  But Easy, fool that he is, decides that he's going to      do the real thing, the job thing, and he's going to help this guy up in      San Francisco.  He's trying to save this woman named Cinnamon.  He is      being chased down by a guy who's not only a killer, but a torturer, and      that's the mystery.
Then on the other hand, we see a lot of other things.  We see black life      after the riots, the changes in America.  We see the Vietnam War and how      people are responding to that, and we also see the beginning, in Easy's      eyes, of the hippie movement.
Well, you know, I think in many ways, he's more than a      living character.  I think that Easy is a product of my unconscious mind.      Those things that exist in your unconscious are larger than life.      They're magical in their being, and so I don't have Easy, you know,      sitting in this chair here next to me, saying, `Hey, Walter, why don't      you say that now?  What did you think of--you want to go out and get      drunk after th'--I don't have him doing that, but what I have is him way      back there in my heart, in kind of the religious moment in my mind.  And      so he exists in a very, very important way for me, though not in a living      way.
Sure, when he's 80 years old.  When he's 80, it's going to      be his last mystery, and I can see him now.  He's going to have a job.      Somebody, you know, is going to be killed.  Maybe it's going to be a      grandchild.  Maybe somebody's in trouble, and he's going to have to get      out there as an old man, infirmed in some ways, but rich in wisdom, and      he's going to solve some crime. It's going to be his last book, but it'll      be the year 2000.
I can't say anything for sure.  I can't even say I'm going      to walk out of this room for sure, so I certainly can't say that for      sure.
As sure as I am, yeah, I'm going to do that, you know,      because I like writing about Easy Rawlins.  I want to do it my whole      life.  I don't want to be dominated by Easy Rawlins.  I don't want that      to be the only books or kinds of books that I write, but I want to write      those books.  I love Easy and Mouse and Jackson Blue and EttaMae and      Jesus and Feather and, you know, there's all these characters in Easy's      life that are wonderful to write about, and I like to visit them every      once in a while.
I think Easy will probably outlive everybody in his life.      The difference between my Fearless Jones novels and my Easy Rawlins      novels is that Easy is drama verging on tragedy; meaning to say if Easy      saves your life, you'd be better off dead.  And Fearless is a drama      verging on comedy.  You know, everything is going to come out fine in      Fearless' world, you know.  You might be dead, but you don't know it.      And if you're living, you've got something good going for you.  But, you      know, so in Easy's world, most everybody's going to die.
I'm making a deal right now with HBO and a theatrical group      to make a movie for release in the theater, "Little Scarlet," starring      Jeffrey Wright and Mos Def.  I'm very happy about that.
We're making the deal as we speak.
Thank you very much.

They mean it when they say it. I mean it right now. You know, the thing is, is that I thought the other day about how many books I have in my head. And I realized I don't have a long enough life to write all the books that are in my head. I've done Easy Rawlins. I really - I've covered it. I could stop writing Easy and write all these other books I have to write.
Like for instance, I want to a write a series of novellas - science fiction novellas called "The Cross Town Omnibus to Oblivion." And there are five novels I haven't - the only thing that they have in common is a theme. And the theme is, is that in each one of these novellas, a black man destroys the world. You know, there are so many, so many things to write.
You know, it's so interesting being a black man in America writing anything. Because for so long, we've been kept out of so much that almost anything I enter - it's not the first time, it's one of the first times. Anybody, you know, black has ever written this kind of work. And so that's kind of very interesting to me.
You know, in a country that's so unbelievably dominated by the concept of capitalism where people, you know, just - they really like - I specialize. I put the left front tire on the Pinto. Okay fine. If you're building cars, maybe you need somebody that does that. But in my life, you know, as a writer, I can go anywhere. I can do anything. And if I want to say something that's different, I may have to find a different genre to say it.
And if I'm going to, you know, criticize America's so-called war on terrorism, I'm going to have to do something, you know, political. It's going to have to be a polemic, as you say.
It's pretty much an interesting issue though. I mean, because you know - nobody's ever happy enough. You know, like, you know - somebody said, well, you know, you're doing really good. Well, I could say, well, look at James Patterson, look at Mary Higgins Clark, they're doing 30 times better than I am economically.
But, you know, the issue is, is that, you know, I'm making enough to live. I'm writing books that I think, you know, that are important to me. I'm writing about black male heroes, which hardly anybody has ever done ever in America and even today. I'm having a good time. I'm writing books that I think, you know, that are important. And also I have a career as a literary writer, no matter where I'm writing. And I - that's so important to me. You know, that - where I can be taken seriously as, you know, as a man of letters, you know, actually in this world.
It's an interesting - I mean, it's an interesting question. You know, a lot of people, for instance, if they're not a Chicano or Korean or Japanese or whatever, forget those people.
So you have a lot of black people writing about black Los Angeles. And there is a black Los Angeles, but the black Los Angeles is seasoned and tempered by Chicanos and Koreans and Japanese and other Asian, you know, populations, and some by white people and certainly, by the Jewish population.
And so to write a book about Los Angeles that pretends that Los Angeles is black or white is almost as bad as the old guys writing books about Los Angeles in which Los Angeles is only white. It doesn't make sense. Now, of course, before the riots, there were two colors - white and not white.
And all of us who were, you know, Japanese, Korean, black, Chicano, we all got along. We understood each other. We worked together. We lived together. The riots changed that. But Easy comes from a moment of consciousness before the riots. And so he's still able to see a greater variety. And, you know, there are still a lot of people that work together. A lot of people only want to concentrate on conflict, but there are a lot of people who get along and understand each other.
Yeah. Well, you know, I mean, a lot of people write books about Jewish-American life. And there's some very good books, you know, all through kind of our history. And as I say many times, there are hardly any writers about black American - black male heroes in America, ever - now or ever in our history. And so it's, you know, it's a task I've kind of - I've taken on with not necessarily a conscious decision, but certainly a decision.
And, you know, the Jewish characters in my books are wonderful and I love them. And they've been in all the books, but they're not, you know, it really is a - they really are novels that are, you know, peopled by African-Americans.
Thank you.

Thank you. Happy Independence Day to you.
Easy? I guess - you know, that's interesting, because I started out as a kid thinking out I was America and, you know, experienced a great deal of alienation growing up in the '60s and '70s, and maybe for a while thought I wasn't, and then came back to it again. So, whether it was easy or not, it was a long road.
Well, you know, I wrote a book a while ago book called "What Next?" which is a - and - it came out just about the same time that we attacked Iraq for the second time. And it was a criticism of our war on terrorism. And I was on tour in England to talk about the book and, you know, I said, you know, we're doing this and we're doing that, talking about America.
And the people are saying, well, why are you saying you? You're not doing this stuff. And I said, well, I am. I'm an American. And they said, well, you didn't vote for, you know, the president - Bush at the time. I said, no, but he's still my president.
And I think that that was the beginning of me saying, yeah, you know, I have to kind of face up to what I'm doing, you know, what I like and what I don't like and what my county is doing, what I like and what I don't like about it.
Yeah.
Well, you know, and it's - in a way, in spite of what we say about being a melting pot we are...
...and, you know, we start, you know, with those, you know, people coming over from Asia, you know, and becoming the Native Americans. And, you know, then the slaves - in my case, the Jews that came over at the beginning of the 20th century. The French and the Spanish and the - and every - all those other people all coming here at different times over many thousands of years to blend into a very unique kind of nation. When - and even though we call ourselves this great melting pot, we don't quite realize it, I think, how true it is.
Yeah. My mother's Jewish.
Mm-hmm.
Yes. The Creoles in New Orleans, and then, you know, even though I'm not directly related, you know, just being raised in L.A., you know, I mean, the thousands of Chicanos that help me out kind of govern, you know, what I became. This is - it's so amazing. And it's so true for all of us, you know? And, you know, the racial, you know, the racial definitions are so, I mean, they're kind of fallacious. You know, they don't really make much sense. And though, you know, we hold tightly to them, you know, this is black. This is white. This is, you know, so-called Hispanic.
You know, I have - I haven't. Yeah, because, you know, even though I'm interested in the biology of it, you know, obviously. What's more interesting for me is the linguistic culture that, you know, we're formed by linguistic culture. And so, you know, I'm not particularly drawn to it, though - you know, I know Skip is doing that.
It's a wonderful thing, yeah.
Oh, yeah, jazz is definitely in. And you know - and it's so interesting because it is, as I said in that little article of mine, it's the kind of unconsecrated marriage between Europe and Africa, jazz.
Hmm.
Yeah. I think that that's probably true and that has to do with eras. That has to do with the history of - in New York being older or the east being older in some ways and reflecting the really ancient racial stereotypes of Europe where - you know, races were - if you were from - you know, if you came from Romania or you came from Spain or you came from Italy, you were different races.
You know, that's why everybody outside of Rome was a barbarian, you know, because there were different races. You know, and I think that - and but by the time you get to California, you know, that wave of, you know, America gets to California, the races have been changed into color.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, I used to live in Vermont, in a small town in Vermont. It was kind of wonderful there. People would say that you didn't - you weren't a member of the community unless your grandmother was buried in the graveyard.
Well, I think it's interesting. I think that, you know, one of the things that strikes me about America that's good about us and also bad about us is how ahistorical we are, you know? And I've seen the other day when my father was telling me that when he was in World War II and they, you know, they got to France, the first thing they said is, Lafayette, I am here. And, you know...
No, my father said it in World War II.
I know my father said it.
And I know that wasn't in World War I. But, yeah, they said it's in World War I, too, but they were still saying it in World War II, that obviously...
...my father was just a sergeant there. And I think that our knowledge of history has changed. But even when we knew our history, we didn't have that much of it.
And Europe has so much more to - it's a wonder and a weight on them, you know? And I don't really know what to think about. I don't know if it's - I don't, you know - the caller said, you know, unhappily, we ended up a superpower. Yeah, it's true. I don't know if I want Europe to be a superpower, either, saying that they've, you know, fueled some of the bloodiest wars in history.
What do you mean?
Well, might not have been, yes.
Though I'm not sure - I think I agree with the caller, saying well, it would be nice if we weren't either, if we can actually kind of just share the planet and share, you know, the world, you know, between us without having to have superpowers, that will the best possible thing.
Losing to Germany would have been really awful, certainly.
Yeah. But we - I think he is right that we came out of it a superpower. We didn't go into it a superpower.
Yeah. We came out of it like that.
And - but anyway.
That separation in Europe is wonderful and terrible.
Hmm. Wow. I don't know what to say about that. I'd have to be very insulting to people like Japan and Switzerland, you know, Mali, I don't know. I think - it's interesting, I think that it speaks to us - we have an identity as an American. And I'd have that identity, and I love America, but I don't think that we're better than other countries really.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah. And sibling includes women.
But - yeah, no. The thing is I'm, you know, I think that there's a underlying relation that we have. I think it's in our blood, too, like Skip will say. But I think it's also in our language and our culture. We're connected in ways that - in which we cannot be separated. And whether we recognize it or not, that relationship is there. And, you know, it's kind of wonderful when you don't feel pressed and you don't feel put upon by people in your environment and by the government and by businesses. There's a real celebration about who we are.
I think that earlier caller talking about jazz is really - is true in our music and our stories. There's a deep identity that Americans have that I love, you know? And I'm so happy not to be able to enter into it, whereas, you know, I think we talked to a little bit about W.E.B  not W.E.B. Du Bois but about the talk  on yeah, Du Bois's talk about slavery.
That, you know, that on the Fourth of July, he talks about slavery. And on the Fourth of July, I can talk about how we're all related in a very important, a very deep way. And I think that shows a big change in this country, even more so maybe than our president.
Thank you.

Great to be here.
You know, I actually try my best not to follow trials because there seems to be something a little pornographic and a little un-American about it. I kind of feel that if somebody is, like, being tried for something, that that's - it's not exactly a private thing, but it's a thing between them and the law, and that's the reason we have law, so I don't have to make a decision about it.
Yeah, I'm interested in crimes, and I think a lot of people are interested in crimes, and I think that's partially why they're interested in what's going on in the courtroom. But, you know, mine are fiction. I guess all crime is fiction, though. Even these trials are kind of fictionalized. You never really know.
There's a narrative in the courtroom, but it's a conflicting narrative. You have, you know, the defense and the prosecution. You have people saying that they did commit it, and they didn't commit it, the people say they were there, and they weren't there. Then you have these crazy things, like sometimes somebody gets convicted of a crime that - with eyewitnesses, and later on DNA evidence says they couldn't have possibly committed it.
So there's always a reason to wonder. It's not clear - it's clear what we're trying to get to, but it's not clear how we get there.
Oh no absolutely. It's very dramatic. I don't doubt that. I just - I personally just, I feel a little uncomfortable watching it. And also, you know, I get so upset because I know how much money is spent. I mean, there was more money spent on the O.J. Simpson trial than he could have every possibly made in 20 lifetimes.
Well sometimes you don't see the victim. Usually you don't see the victim. But the victim is supposedly represented by the prosecution.
Is that really true? I mean in the trial in Arizona, there's been a lot said about the victim, hasn't there?
You know, but that's what's so funny is that there's a lot of this that's fiction. The - she is also fictional in a way. I mean, she's there in the courtroom, and she's kind of represented, but we don't really know. This is what always was so interesting to me. I don't ever really know. Someone said is that person guilty. I don't - I have no idea if they're guilty.
You know, they said they're guilty, they said they're not guilty, you know, and then we have our opinions.
By her lawyers and by the lawyers against her or him. You know, it's really, it's very upsetting, you know, the, you know, the number of people who get found guilty of things who are not guilty, the number of people who get freed from crimes that you know they committed.
It's - and that's also a big part of the drama and seeking for justice.
No, it's true, I'm interested in those stories which you might not hear about, you might not know about, you wouldn't understand. And they're - what's exciting about them is what's internal to the characters, not necessarily something that you'd want to hear about on the news.
But, you know, sometimes you'll have a case, like the case here in New York, where the policeman was blamed for stalking women, and he was going to eat them.
But he hadn't killed or eaten anyone yet. And I remember, I was reading about that, and I was - you know, because, like, you know, the guy kind of scared me, and what he was thinking, was doing, it scared me, and I thought wow, this is terrible. But on the other hand, I thought, well, but he hasn't done it. He hasn't done it. How can you possibly find somebody guilty for something they haven't done.
I mean, there are things he did do that he was found guilty for, that was found, but the moment where, you know, that sensationalism actually enters into the courtroom, and decisions are being made not on what you did but on what you might have done...
Yeah.
It is, but you'd hope that the court and the jury and the judge would find some way to, like, keep that out of the courtroom, you know, out of the decision-making process because, you know, you have a - I mean, it's easy to make somebody look bad.
Well, you know, before I answer that question, I just want to say - because I've been thinking about why I'm, like, what interests me about crime and about, you know, sensational courtroom trials. Years and years ago, I was walking down the street, and I was wearing a brown hat, and I had a brown pair of pants, and I had a yellow plastic bag with some tapes in it. And the police stopped me.
And they stopped me in a funny way. I was walking forward, and a policeman was standing in front of me, and I thought he was just standing there by mistake. So I turned to my left, and there was a policeman there, and I turned to my right, and there was a policeman there, and then I turned around, and there was a policeman there. And they were on all four sides of me.
It's not completely true. It's partially true.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But then you have trials like the trial in Chicago when the ACLU protected the rights of the Nazi party to have a public march. There are times when you have trials, public trials, very, you know, visible public trials, which are really about who we are as a people.
Well, there is, as far as the law is concerned, is a - you know, there's a law. It's in question, and the judge and the jury have to come to a decision based on the arguments brought in front of them. And, you know, when it - there are trials like that which are terribly interesting and terribly important.
You know, here, I'm a black man in America saying, look, if we start saying that the Nazis can't march, the next thing I know - you know, because I hate them - but the next thing I know is I won't be able to march. And that is a trial that's very important to me. And, you know, I think in the best "Law & Order" series, they brought up things like that where they - they're actually saying what's right, what's right for America.
Or because you hate the bad guys.
And - but still they have rights just like everybody else, and we have to - in order to be in America, you have to protect everybody's rights.
You know, I completely agree with Laura is saying. Though, I think that the caller was saying that if you're come from a wealthy family with a lot of power, you're going to get a better shape.

When I was 7 years old, I was on the Art Linkletter show, you know, the "Kids Say The Darndest Things." And my accent was so thick. I didn't - you know, who knew about accents? You know, it was only years later when I heard it, I went, wow, I sound like I'm from the South. And really, where I lived in Los Angeles, it was the South.
Swimming in Tabasco sauce.
Yeah.
Well, you know, the Louisiana of Watts is very interesting because it's very rural, which, you know, New Orleans was also way back then - the food that you're eating - you know, oxtails and gumbo and that kind of stuff. The accent, of course, was a very thick accent. People are very, very religious. I remember chickens walking up and down the street where I lived at 76th and Central. And gardens - people had - you know, instead of lawns, people had gardens. They were, you know, growing beans. And they were growing corn. And they were growing turnips and watermelons. People had picked up their lives, which they loved. These people loved the South. They just hated the racism of the South. And they just moved it into Southern California. And a lot of that is still there, though over time it dissipates, like it does in any culture.
Well, you know, they're so interesting. For instance, my father's father was born in the eastern South somewhere and had another name. But then he did something. Nobody really knows what. But he did something, and he had to run. And he came to Louisiana, and he changed his name to Walter Mosley. So I'm a Mosley, but I'm not really related to any Mosleys because that's a made-up name for him. He lived in a neighborhood where he was the only black man in the neighborhood who could read and write. And so everybody in the neighborhood came to my father's porch to speak to my father's father. If they got a letter from a girlfriend, if they got a letter from the government, if they got a letter they didn't even know what it was, they would take it to him. If they got a piece of machinery in the mail and there was instructions, they didn't know how to put it together. And they would come to him, and they'd pay him, you know, 10 cents, 15 cents. And he would explain to them what they had there, or maybe he would write a letter for them. And my father sat in the corner on the porch and just watched his father and, in many ways, became him. You know, he learned then reading is the most important thing that I can do. And it was the most important lesson he ever got.
Oh, he was a great raconteur, yes. I mean - but, you know, it's interesting. Poor people tell stories, you know? They can't do anything else. You know, you're not going to go golfing. You're not even going to go to the movies. You're going to sit around the kitchen table. You're going to tell stories. And you do that long enough, and you get good at it.
It's such an interesting thing. It sounds mythic, right? It sounds like something that should've happened in ancient Greece. He lived in a house with his wife and his young child. And his mother lived in another house, and she was very stubborn. And she said, I'm not leaving. And the wife says, I'm not going to let our child die in this flood. And he saw both arguments. And, you know, finally, he sent the wife away. He said well, you take our child; you go. I'm going to stay here with my mother because I can't abandon my mother. What was so interesting when he was telling the story, it's that he was there for his mother. She survived. He survived. His wife and child survived. The marriage fell apart. But still, they all survived, and they were kind of happy in their survival. And, you know, when I listened to this guy talking, I went, wow, this is the stories my family used to tell me. They're stories of great hardship but told with smiles on their lips.
And thank you.

I've published 52 books and maybe 30 short stories and another 30 or 40 articles.
I have all these things. I'm continually writing them and, you know, people say, well, I can't sell that stuff. Well, that's OK. We'll just publish it. Don't give me any advance and we'll see where it goes, you know, because the idea of writing - if you want to get rich, you go into real estate.
One of the things that I understood is that you don't exist unless you're in the literature, and that doesn't include history books. And the black people in California, they just weren't remembered. They - nobody was telling their stories.
I had no future for Easy, and so I decided I was going to stop writing him. I didn't think he was really dead, but I did think I was going to stop writing him.
My father and his family's story had kind of come to an end at that point for me. And it was now my story. And if Easy was going to go on, I would have to put down these other people's interpretations of the world and use my own.
Ten thousand hippies every night are marching barefoot up and down the street, getting high, talking about new philosophies and religions and notions and trying to create a new culture as they say, a counterculture.
You arrest, you know, Sam Spade and he just says, well, you know, I'll just stay in jail. I don't have to answer you. But if you have a child at home that needs to be fed and protected, you have to figure a way to answer that policeman's question and also get yourself out of jail.
I only write three hours a day, but I write three hours every day, 365 days a year. I just, like, write and write and write.
